                                                             Transformers Learn Shortcuts to Automata

                                            Bingbin Liu1∗ Jordan T. Ash2 Surbhi Goel3† Akshay Krishnamurthy2 Cyril Zhang2
                                                 Carnegie Mellon University
                                                 1                          2
                                                                              Microsoft Research NYC  3
                                                                                                        University of Pennsylvania
                                              bingbinl@cs.cmu.edu, {ash.jordan, goel.surbhi, akshaykr, cyrilzhang}@microsoft.com
arXiv:2210.10749v2 [cs.LG] 2 May 2023




                                                                                                  Abstract
                                                   Algorithmic reasoning requires capabilities which are most naturally understood through recurrent
                                               models of computation, like the Turing machine. However, Transformer models, while lacking recurrence,
                                               are able to perform such reasoning using far fewer layers than the number of reasoning steps. This
                                               raises the question: what solutions are learned by these shallow and non-recurrent models? We show
                                               that a low-depth Transformer can represent the computations of any finite-state automaton (thus, any
                                               bounded-memory algorithm), by hierarchically reparameterizing its recurrent dynamics. Our theoretical
                                               results characterize shortcut solutions, whereby a Transformer with o(T ) layers can exactly replicate
                                               the computation of an automaton on an input sequence of length T . We find that polynomial-sized
                                               O(log T )-depth solutions always exist; furthermore, O(1)-depth simulators are surprisingly common, and
                                               can be understood using tools from Krohn-Rhodes theory and circuit complexity. Empirically, we find that
                                               Transformers converge to shortcut solutions with standard training, across a wide variety of automata.
                                               We further investigate the brittleness of these solutions and propose potential mitigations.



                                        1      Introduction
                                        Modern deep learning systems demonstrate increasing capabilities of algorithmic reasoning. Particularly in
                                        modalities such as natural language, math, and code, neural networks can successfully parse and synthesize
                                        sequences containing symbolic information and compositional structure. To exhibit these functionalities,
                                        these networks are required to learn and execute the relevant discrete algorithms within their internal
                                        representations. A core open question in this domain is that of mechanistic understanding: how do neural
                                        networks encode the primitives of algorithmic reasoning?
                                        When considering this question, there is an apparent mismatch between classical sequential models of
                                        computation (e.g. Turing machines) and the Transformer, the state-of-the-art architecture for neural
                                        algorithmic reasoning. If we are to think of algorithms as sequentially-executed computational rules, why
                                        should we use a shallow1 and non-recurrent architecture to represent them?
                                        We study this question through the lens of semiautomata, which compute state sequences q1 , . . . , qT from
                                        inputs σ1 , . . . , σT by application of a recurrent transition function δ (and initial state q0 ):

                                                                                              qt = δ(qt−1 , σt ).

                                        Semiautomata describe the underlying dynamics of automata, which are simply semiautomata equipped with
                                        mappings from states to outputs. With unbounded state spaces, automata can represent all algorithms;
                                        however, even bounded automata form a rich class of sequence processing algorithms, containing regular
                                            ∗ The majority of this work was completed while B. Liu was an intern at Microsoft Research NYC.
                                            † This work was completed while S. Goel was at Microsoft Research NYC.

                                        Please see our project page for our code release and other resources.
                                        1 In practice, a Transformer’s context length (which can be thousands of tokens) is typically far greater than its depth (which

                                          can be as small as 6).



                                                                                                      1
  parity counter      memory unit                   1D gridworld
                                                                                                                 σ1
   0           0    ⊥, σ♣         ⊥, σ♦   𝖫                              𝖱


  even
         1
              odd     ♣
                            σ♦
                                  ♦       1
                                              𝖱
                                                    2
                                                         𝖱
                                                              3
                                                                     𝖱
                                                                         4                                      σ6.
          1                  σ♣               𝖫          𝖫           𝖫


Q = {even, odd}     Q = {♣, ♦}                    Q = {1, 2, 3, 4}           Q = {1 . . 3} × {1 . . 4}   Q = {54 stickers}
Σ = {0, 1}          Σ = {σ♣, σ♦, ⊥}               Σ = {𝖫, 𝖱}                 Σ = {← , → , ↑ , ↓}         Σ = {6 face rotations}
Figure(a)                (b) of semiautomata. From
        1: Various examples                                                                         (e)
                                                  (c) left to right: a mod-2(d)counter, a 2-state memory  unit,
Grid4 , a 2-dimensional gridworld constructible via a direct product Grid3 × Grid4 , and a Rubik’s Cube, whose
transformation semigroup is a very large non-abelian group.

expression parsers and finite-state transducers. In reinforcement learning and control, semiautomata are better
known as deterministic Markov models (where σt are actions); thus, in addition to algorithmic reasoning, the
results in this work also pertain to Transformer dynamics models.
We perform a theoretical and empirical investigation of whether (and how) non-recurrent Transformers
perform the computations of semiautomata. We find that Transformers learn shortcut solutions, which
correctly and efficiently simulate the sequential transitions of semiautomata using a shallow parallel circuit,
rather than naively iterating the single-step recurrence. Shortcuts arise from hierarchical reparameterizations
of a semiautomaton’s global transition dynamics.
Our contributions. Our theoretical results provide structural guarantees for the representability of
semiautomata (thus, iterative algorithms) by one pass through a shallow, non-recurrent Transformer. In
particular, we show that:
 • Shortcut solutions, with depth logarithmic in the sequence length, always exist (Theorem 1).
 • Constant-depth shortcuts exist for solvable semiautomata (Theorem 2). These are understood via
   the Krohn-Rhodes theorem, a landmark result in semigroup theory. Conversely, there do not exist
   constant-depth shortcuts for non-solvable semiautomata, unless TC0 = NC1 (Theorem 4).
 • For a natural class of semiautomata corresponding to path integration in a “gridworld” with boundaries,
   we show that there are even shorter shortcuts (Theorem 3), beyond those guaranteed by the general
   structure theorems above.
We accompany these with an extensive set of experimental findings:
 • Transformers learn shortcuts with standard training (Section 4). Across a wide variety of semiautomaton
   simulation problems, we find that shallow non-autoregressive Transformers successfully learn shortcut
   solutions: despite the non-convex optimization problem, gradient-based training works. This suggests
   that shortcuts are plausible mechanisms for algorithmic reasoning in non-synthetic sequence models, and
   lies beyond our current theoretical understanding.
 • Shortcuts are statistically brittle (Section 5). We identify empirical weaknesses of the shortcuts found by
   Transformers: poor out-of-distribution generalization (including to unseen sequence lengths) and worse
   performance than RNNs under limited supervision. Toward mitigating these drawbacks and obtaining the
   best of both worlds, we show that with recency-biased scratchpad training, autoregressive Transformers
   can easily be guided to learn the iterative RNN-like solutions (chain-of-thought generation).

1.1      Related work
Emergent reasoning in neural sequence models. Neural sequence models, both recurrent (Howard
and Ruder, 2018, Peters et al., 2018, Wu et al., 2016) and non-recurrent (Devlin et al., 2018, Vaswani et al.,
2017), have become an era-defining tool for parsing and transducing data with combinatorial structure,
such as natural language and code. A nascent frontier is to leverage neural dynamics models, again both
recurrent (Hafner et al., 2019) and non-recurrent (Chen et al., 2021a, Janner et al., 2021), for decision making.



                                                               2
At the highest level, the present work seeks to understand the mechanisms by which these models perform
combinatorial and algorithmic reasoning.
Computational models within neural networks. Despite the preponderance of empirical successes,
many mysteries remain, towards understanding the internal mechanisms of neural networks capable of
algorithmic reasoning. It is known that self-attention realizes low-complexity circuits (Edelman et al., 2022,
Elhage et al., 2021, Hahn, 2020, Merrill et al., 2021), declarative programs (Weiss et al., 2021), and Turing
machines (Dehghani et al., 2019, Giannou et al., 2023, Pérez et al., 2021). Interpretable symbolic computations
have been extracted from trained models (Clark et al., 2019, Tenney et al., 2019, Vig, 2019, Wang et al.,
2022). Our conclusions are closest to the literature on the universal representation on Turing machines (which
are automata with unbounded states); however, our work is unique in characterizing the recurrent machines
whose execution loops can be efficiently unrolled into a single pass of a shallow Transformer.
At a technical level, the most relevant theoretical work to ours is (Barrington and Thérien, 1988), which acts as
a “Rosetta Stone” between circuit complexity and semigroup theory. The core technical ideas for Theorems 1
(NC1 prefix sum), 2 (Krohn-Rhodes), and 4 (Barrington) are inspired by the results and discussions therein.
For readers familiar with circuit complexity: our theoretical results establish that Transformers (a certain
family of arithmetic circuits) efficiently embed the constructions involved in the NC1 and ACC0 solutions
to semigroup word problems. The notions of efficiency (depth, parameter count, and weight norms) are
standard in deep learning but not circuit complexity; our embedding avoids suboptimal poly(T ) factors in
these complexity measures. Theorem 3 comes from an improved parallel algorithm for the special case of
“gridworld” semigroups; to our knowledge, this construction is novel, and may be of independent interest.
Learning elementary algorithms with Transformers. Our work provides a unifying lens on many
recent investigations on whether (and how) Transformers represent certain classes of fundamental algorithmic
computations. These include bounded-depth Dyck languages (Yao et al., 2021), modular prefix sums (Anil
et al., 2022), adders (Nanda and Lieberum, 2022, Nogueira et al., 2021), regular languages (Bhattamishra
et al., 2020), and sparse logical predicates (Barak et al., 2022, Edelman et al., 2022), which are all special cases
of simulating finite-state automata. Thus, our work provides guarantees of shallow Transformer solutions in
all of these settings. Zhang et al. (2022) empirically analyze the behavior and inner workings of Transformers
on random-access group operations and note “shortcuts” (which skip over explicit program execution) similar
to those we study.
We provide an expanded discussion of related work in Appendix A.5.


2     Preliminaries
2.1    Semiautomata and their algebraic structure
A semiautomaton A := (Q, Σ, δ) consists of a set of states Q, an input alphabet Σ, and a transition function
δ : Q × Σ → Q. In this work, Q and Σ will always be finite sets. For all positive integers T and a starting
state q0 ∈ Q, A defines a map from input sequences (σ1 , . . . , σT ) ∈ ΣT to state sequences (q1 , . . . , qT ) ∈ QT :
qt := δ(qt−1 , σt ) for t = 1, . . . , T . This is a deterministic Markov model, in the sense that at time t, the future
states qt+1 , . . . , qT only depend on the current state qt and the future inputs σt+1 , . . . , σT .
We define the task of simulation: given a semiautomaton A, starting state q0 , and input sequence (σ1 , . . . , σT ),
output the state trajectory AT,q0 (σ1 , . . . , σT ) := (q1 , . . . , qT ). Let f : ΣT → QT be a function (which in
general can depend on A, T, q0 ). We will say that f simulates AT,q0 if f (σ1:T ) = AT,q0 (σ1:T ) for all input
sequences σ1:T . Finally, for a positive integer T , we say that a function class F of functions from ΣT → QT
simulates A at length T if, for each q0 ∈ Q, there is a function in F which simulates AT,q0
Every semiautomaton induces a transformation semigroup T (A) of functions ρ : Q → Q under composition,
generated by the per-input-symbol state mappings δ(·, σ) : Q → Q. When T (A) contains the identity function,
it is called a transformation monoid. When all of the functions are invertible, T (A) is a permutation group.
See Figure 1 for some examples which appear both in our theory and experiments; additional background
(including a self-contained tutorial on the relevant concepts in finite group and semigroup theory) is provided



                                                           3
in Appendix A.2. An elementary example is a parity counter (leftmost in Figure 1): the state is a bit, and the
inputs are {“toggle the bit”, “do nothing”}; the transformation semigroup is C2 , the cyclic group of order 2.

2.2     Recurrent and non-recurrent neural sequence models
A sequence-to-sequence neural network of length T and embedding dimension d is a function fnn : RT ×d × Θ →
RT ×d , with trainable parameters θ ∈ Θ. Equipped with an encoding layer E : Σ → Rd and decoding layer
W : Rd → Q (both applied position-wise), and fixing some parameters θ, the function (W ◦fnn ◦E) : ΣT → QT
has the same input and output types as AT,q0 .
A recurrent neural network (RNN) is a sequence-to-sequence neural network defined by iterated composition
of a recurrent unit g : Rd × Rd × Θ → Rd . For a given initial hidden state h0 ∈ Rd , and input sequence
u1 , . . . , uT ∈ Rd , it produces an output hidden state sequence

                                          ht := g(ht−1 ; ut ; θ),      t = 1, . . . , T.

Thus, fixing the parameters θ, an RNN is an infinite semiautomaton, with Q = Σ = Rd . Thus, RNNs
can trivially simulate any semiautomaton by embedding the looped transition function δ, as long as g can
represent δ.
An L-layer (or depth-L) Transformer is a different sequence-to-sequence network, consisting of alternating
self-attention blocks and feedforward MLP blocks
                                   (L)            (L)               (L−1)                    (1)
                   ftf := (id + fmlp ) ◦ (id + fattn ) ◦ (id + fmlp         ) ◦ ... ◦ (id + fattn ) ◦ (id + P ).

Briefly, an attention layer performs `1 -normalized mixing operations across positions t, while a constant-layer
MLP block performs position-wise function approximation (with no mixing between positions); id denotes the
identity function (residual connections), and P encodes the positions t.2 We use fairly standard positional
encodings in both theory and experiments. Importantly, the standard Transformer is convolutional (in that
the weights in fattn and fmlp are shared across positions t), but not recurrent: parameters are not shared
across blocks of different layers.
Typical Transformers are shallow, in the sense that L  T . In practice, this makes their inference and
gradient computations highly parallelizable, with the number of sequential computation steps scaling linearly
in L, while RNNs require a scaling linear in T . While there is always a canonical way for RNNs to simulate
semiautomata, the answer to the analogous question for shallow Transformers is far less obvious, and forms
the main topic of this paper.
Our results will quantify efficiency with several complexity measures of Transformers: the computational
depth D (which is Θ(L) for Transformers and Θ(T ) for RNNs), embedding dimension d, attention width
(the largest number of parallel attention head outputs), MLP width (the largest number of parallel hidden
activations in MLP), `∞ weight norms, and floating-point precision. These are fully defined and discussed in
Appendix A.4.


3     Theory: shortcuts abound
To simulate a semiautomaton at length T , a T -layer Transformer can implement the same sequential solution
as an RNN: let the t-th layer embed the state transition qt−1 7→ qt . We define shortcuts as solutions which
implement the same functionality with a significantly smaller depth.
Definition 1 (Shortcut solution). Let A be a semiautomaton. For every T ≥ 1, let fT be a sequence-to-
sequence neural network which simulates A at length T . Then, we call this sequence {fT }T ≥1 a shortcut to
A if the sequence of network depths D := {D(fT )}T ≥1 satisfies D ≤ o(T ).
By this definition, shortcuts are quite general, and some are less interesting than others. For example, it is
always possible to construct a constant-depth neural network which memorizes all |Σ|T values of AT,q0 , but
2 We omit layer normalization. This discrepancy is superficial; see the discussion in Appendix A.4.




                                                               4
                         δ( ⋅ , σ1:8)             sum(z1:6) mod p                                                 q7

                             ∘                          +p                                                    boundary

                                                                                                               distinct
               ∘             ∘
                                        z1 z2 z3 z4 z5 z6 z7 z8
                                                        ♦
                                                                                                               (sin, cos)
         ∘     ∘     ∘       ∘                          M
                                                                                                                  +

                                        ♣ ⊥ ⊥ ♦ ⊥ ⊥ ⊥ ♣
      σ1 σ2 σ3 σ4 σ5 σ6 σ7 σ8                                                                 𝖫 𝖱 𝖫 𝖫 𝖫 𝖱 𝖱 𝖫

               (a)                                (b)                        (c)                        (d)
Figure 2: Intuitions for the theoretical constructions. (a) Divide-and-conquer function composition yields
logarithmic-depth shortcuts (Theorem 1). (b) The two “atoms” of the constant-depth Krohn-Rhodes
decomposition (Theorem 2) of a solvable semiautomaton: modular addition and sequentially resettable
memory. (c) Information flow of the cascade product, which is used to glue these atoms together, and easily
implemented with residual connections. (d) An even shorter shortcut solution for gridworld simulation
(Theorem 3; see Appendix C.4).

these networks must √                      √ There are also solutions which emulate transitions in “chunks”,
                      be exceptionally wide.
letting each of (say) T layers perform T consecutive state transitions;
                                                                  √
                                                                           however, without exploiting the
structure of the semiautomaton, this would require width Ω(|Σ| T ). To rule out these cases and focus on
interesting shortcuts for Transformers, we want the other size parameters (attention and MLP width) to
be small: say, scaling at most polynomially in T , |Q|, and |Σ|. To construct such shortcuts, we need ideas
beyond explicit iteration of state transitions.

3.1      Semiautomata admit shallow parallel shortcuts
We begin by noting that polynomial-width shortcuts always exist. This may seem counterintuitive if we
restrict ourselves to viewing a Transformer’s intermediate activations as representations of states qt , like the
RNN solution. Instead, a Transformer can encode and hierarchically compose transformations δ(·, σ) : Q → Q
(see Figure 2a), leading to far shallower solutions:
Theorem 1 (Simulation is generically parallelizable; informal). Transformers can simulate all semiautomata
A = (Q, Σ, δ) at length T , with depth O(log T ), embedding dimension O(|Q|), attention width O(|Q|), and
MLP width O(|Q|2 ).
This is proven in Appendix C.2, and leverages the ability of a self-attention head to approximate hard attention
(i.e. concentrate its mixing weights on a single position). However, self-attention heads can also perform soft
attention (i.e. depend on a large number of previous positions), enabling even shallower implementations of
certain sequential computations. For example, the parity automaton can be simulated by a single Transformer
layer (see Lemma 6): soft attention computes prefix sums in parallel, then the MLP computes “mod 2”. This
leads to a significantly more nuanced question: when are there even shallower shortcuts? At first glance,
such solutions may seem rare, and specialized to simple cases such as parity.
Our resolution to this question comes from the Krohn-Rhodes decomposition theorem (Krohn and Rhodes,
1965), a landmark result which vastly generalizes the uniqueness of prime integer factorizations, and created
the mathematical field of algebraic automata theory (Rhodes et al., 2010). The conclusion is quite unintuitive:
allowing for both hard and soft modes of attention, constant-depth shortcuts are surprisingly common!
Theorem 2 (Transformer Krohn-Rhodes; informal). Transformers can simulate all solvable3 semiautomata
A = (Q, Σ, δ), with depth O(|Q|2 log |Q|), embedding dimension 2O(|Q| log |Q|) , attention width 2O(|Q| log |Q|) ,
                      |Q|
and MLP width |Q|O(2 ) + 2O(|Q| log |Q|) · T .
3 See Definition 6. Intuitively, the only obstructions are when the semiautomata contain non-solvable groups such as S , the
                                                                                                                      5
 group of all permutations of 5 elements.




                                                                    5
Much of the appendix is dedicated to providing a user-friendly exposition of the relevant algebraic concepts,
culminating in the proof of Theorem 2. We provide a few high-level notes below:
 • Intuitively (illustrated in Figures 2b and 2c), the Krohn-Rhodes decomposition “factorizes” every solvable
   semiautomaton into modular counters and memory units, glued together via a feedforward cascade product
   (Definition 4) whose depth only depends on |Q|, not T . These two types of “prime” semiautomata can be
   efficiently simulated by depth-1 Transformers.
 • The decomposition depends on the transformation semigroup T (A). It is non-constructive (much like how
   the existence of prime factorizations doesn’t entail a procedure to find them). Computationally, these
   solutions still have to be found by a search procedure. Remarkably, we find that gradient-based training
   succeeds empirically, despite the worst-case computational hardness of related problems.
What makes Transformers special (vs. other universal function approximators)? The same
underlying semiautomaton-to-circuit constructions could be applied to any universal function approximator
(like a vanilla MLP with the same depth). Transformers embed all of the constructions in Theorems 1 and
2 with exceptional efficiency, in terms of the network complexity measures discussed in Section 2. Most
importantly, the constructions leverage Transformers’ positional weight sharing, which removes all4 suboptimal
T factors from the parameter count. We discuss this further in Appendix A.5.
Even shallower shortcuts, beyond Krohn-Rhodes. Finally, we show that on a natural class of problems,
the computational model of self-attention leads to further fine-grained improvements over the guarantees of
Krohn-Rhodes theory. Motivated by the application of Transformers in modeling environment dynamics,
we consider the semiautomaton Gridn corresponding to a “gridworld”: n states on a line, with inputs “move
left if possible” and “move right if possible” (see Figure 1, middle). We show that self-attention enables an
extremely concise solution, with depth independent of both T and |Q| = n:
Theorem 3 (Depth-2 shortcut for gridworld; informal). For all positive integers n, T , Transformers can
simulate Gridn at length T , with depth 2,5 embedding dimension O(1), attention width O(n), and MLP width
O(T ).6
The proof builds a parallel nearest boundary detector for the two boundary (i.e. leftmost and rightmost)
states, and can be found in Appendix C.4. We note that gridworlds are known to be extremal cases for
the holonomy decomposition in Krohn-Rhodes theory (Maler (2010) discusses this, calling it the elevator
automaton). It would be interesting to generalize our improvement and characterize the class of problems for
which self-attention affords O(1) instead of poly(|Q|)-depth solutions.

3.2     Lower bounds
Can Theorem 2 be improved to handle non-solvable semiautomata? (Equivalently: can Theorem 1 be
improved to constant depth?) It turns out that as a consequence of a classic result in circuit complexity
                                                                                             ?
(Barrington, 1986), this question is equivalent to the major open question of TC0 = NC1 (thus: conjecturally,
no). Unless these complexity classes collapse, Theorems 1 and 2 are optimal. In summary, simulating
non-solvable semiautomata with constant depth is provably hard:
Theorem 4 (Transformer Barrington). Let A be a non-solvable semiautomaton. Then, for sufficiently
large T , no O(log T )-precision Transformer with depth independent of T and width polynomial in T can
continuously simulate A at length T , unless TC0 = NC1 .
This is proven in Appendix C.5. The smallest example of a non-solvable semiautomaton has |Q| = 60 states,
whose transitions generate A5 (all of the even permutations).
Finally, we note that although our width bounds might be improvable, an exponential-in-|Q| number of
hypotheses (and hence a network with poly(|Q|) parameters) is unavoidable if one wishes to learn an arbitrary
4 The only part of Theorem 2 requiring T non-tied neurons is the implementation of mod-p gates. It disappears entirely if we

 can add auxiliary MLP neurons with periodic activation functions such as x 7→ sin(x).
5 This requires max-pooling. If we do not use max-pooling, we can instead use an MLP with width 2O(n) and depth O(1), or

 width O(n) and depth O(log n).
6 As with Theorem 2, the width can be reduced to O(n) if we employ periodic activation functions.




                                                             6
          1    2   3   4   5   6   7   8 12 16
    Dyck 99.3 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

  Grid9 92.2 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

    C2   77.6 99.8 99.9 100 100 99.5 100 99.7 100 100

    C3 54.6 94.6 96.7 99.4 100 100 99.8 100 100 100

    C23 65.0 77.9 99.9 97.9 100 99.8 98.2 99.9 95.9 80.6
                                                                    (b) Training curves for C2 (i.e. parity; 10 replicates).
    D6 25.4 27.2 47.4 75.2 100 100 100 100 100 100

    D8 45.6 98.0 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100

    Q8 31.6 49.2 59.6 60.4 73.5 99.3 100 100 100 100

    A5   12.5 23.1 32.5 46.7 71.2 98.8 100 100 100 100

    S5   7.9 11.8 14.6 19.7 26.0 28.4 32.8 51.8 97.2 99.9

(a) Accuracy across tasks (rows) and network depths
(columns); details in Appendix B.1.1.                                     (c) Training curves for S5 (10 replicates).
Figure 3: Overview of the empirical results in Section 4, on in-distribution learnability of shortcuts by standard
Transformer training. (a) Truncated table of results (in-distribution accuracy); rows specify semiautomaton
simulation problems, and columns specify network depth. (b),(c) Training is highly unstable.

                                                                                                     2
|Q|-state semiautomaton from data: there are |Q||Q|·|Σ| of them, which generate |Q|Ω(|Q| ) distinct semigroups
(Kleitman et al., 1976). If we wish to study how machine learning models can efficiently identify large
algebraic structures, we will need finer-grained inductive biases to specify which semiautomata to prefer, a
direction for future work.


4        Experiments: can SGD find the shortcuts?
The results in Section 3 only provide a precise understanding of representability: they show that shortcut
solutions exist within the parameter space of a shallow Transformer. To understand whether Transformers
can actually learn these shortcuts from data, we must introduce the additional considerations of generalization
and optimization. It is notoriously difficult to derive meaningful analyses which account for all of these
factors in deep learning; thus, we do not attempt to do so in this work.7 Instead, we approach the end-to-end
question with an empirical lens: trained on sequences arising from a variety of automata, does a shallow
(depth-L  T ) Transformer converge to correct simulators of these automata?
For a selection of 19 semiautomata corresponding to various groups and semigroups (detailed descriptions in
Appendix B.1.1), we train shallow Transformer (GPT-2-like (Radford et al., 2019)) models to map randomly
sampled sequences (σ1 , . . . , σT ) to their corresponding state sequences (q1 , . . . , qT ), and evaluate their accuracy
on held-out sequences. We vary the depth L from 1 to 16, and use freshly-sampled sequences of length
T = 100. In this setup, the number of sequences encountered during training (≤ 106 ) is far smaller than
the number of distinct input sequences (|Σ|100 ). Thus, brute-force memorization cannot solve this task, and
generalization is necessary to achieve nontrivial performance.
Strikingly, we obtain positive results (> 99% in-distribution accuracy8 ) for every finite-state semiautomaton
7 Our bounds on the parameter count and weight norms do imply classical generalization bounds for appropriately norm-

  constrained Transformers (Edelman et al., 2022), but these are too coarse-grained to provide non-vacuous predictions of
  generalization behavior.
8 Our primary goal is to understand if gradient-based training can find shortcut solutions at all, rather than whether such

  training is stable. Accordingly, unless otherwise noted, we report the performance of the best model among 20 replicates. See
 Appendix B for details and sensitivity analyses.



                                                              7
    (a) 1st layer, uniform attention   (b) 4th layer, left boundary detector   (c) 4th layer, right boundary detector

Figure 4: Attention heads implement a nearest boundary detector for the 1-dimensional gridworld task (see
Figure 1 and Theorem 3): the lower triangle shows the causal attention patterns (the upper triangle is masked
out, hence all 0), where a brighter color corresponds to a higher attention score. Positions for the actual
boundaries are marked by white (for the left boundary i.e. state 1) or gray (for the right boundary, i.e. state
n) dots. This shows that our theoretical construction in Theorem 3 agrees with the solutions found in practice.


we considered, including ones which generate the non-solvable groups A5 and S5 . Figure 3a gives a selection
of our full results (in Appendix B.1). We find that more complex semiautomata (corresponding to non-abelian
groups) require deeper networks to learn, in agreement with our theoretical constructions.

What about the small fraction of mistakes? Our theoretical results show that there are logarithmic-
depth (S5 , A5 ) and constant-depth (all the others) solutions which simulate these semiautomata with exactly
100% accuracy. Of course, with such long sequences, black-box evaluation of whether this accuracy is
reached in the population distribution is computationally infeasible. However, we note that without periodic
activations (or some other mechanism for extrapolating to unseen count values), our theoretical constructions
require MLPs to memorize the mod-n function. This will be revisited in the out-of-distribution evaluation
experiments in Section 5.2, but there is even a corresponding implication for in-distribution mistakes: if a
model never sees outlier counts during training, it is expected to make mistakes on those outliers when they
appear in evaluation.

Which shallow solutions are learned? Our theoretical results identify shortcut solutions which follow
multiple, mutually incompatible paradigms. In general, we do not attempt a full investigation of mechanistic
interpretability of the trained models. In particular, we do not claim that the networks discover implementations
are isomorphic to those described in the proofs of Theorem 1, 2, and 3. However, as a preliminary exploration,
we visualize some of the attention patterns in Figure 3b within successfully-trained models, finding attention
heads which perform flat summations (with uniform attention) and conditional resets, agreeing with the
construction in Theorem 3.

Optimization instability. Although sufficiently deep networks find the solutions with non-negligible
probability, the training dynamics are unstable; Figure 3b,c show example training curves, which exhibit
high variance, negative progress, or accuracy that decays with continued training. In the same vein as the
“synthetic reasoning tasks” introduced by Zhang et al. (2022), we hope that semiautomaton simulation will be
useful as a clean, nontrivial testbed (with multiple difficulty knobs) for debugging and improving training
algorithms, and perhaps the neural architectures themselves. More details are deferred to Appendix B.1.1.


5     Further experiments: more challenging settings
The results from Sections 3 and 4 show that Transformers can learn shortcuts end-to-end, unobstructed
by depth, generalization, or optimization. However, the experiments in Section 4 are idealized in several


                                                         8
        Task       Dyck4,8      Grid9        S5         C4         D8

    Observation    stack top   1boundary   π1:t (1)   10 mod 4   location

     Accuracy        100.0       100.0      99.6        99.9      100.0


  (a) Accuracies with indirect supervision (details in Appendix B.2.1).
  LSTM gets 100% on all tasks.                                              (b) Varying preveal (log spacing).

Figure 5: Overview of the empirical results in Section 5.1. (a) Learning in the latent-state setting, with
various observation maps ϕ(qt ). (b) Learning from incomplete state sequences: final accuracy vs. position-wise
probability of a hidden token, for GPT and LSTM; the mean and standard deviations are taken over 25 runs.




Figure 6: OOD generalization on C2 (parity): Transformers fail to generalize to different distributions (left)
because shortcuts fail to generalize to unseen counts (right; the 1s are uniformly distributed in the sequence).
In contrast, recurrent solutions (LSTM, and Transformer with recency-biased scratchpad training) maintain
perfect accuracy.




Figure 7: Length generalization on Dyck (left) and C2 (right): Transformers fail to generalize to longer
sequences, but can be improved by modifying positional encodings. In contrast, recurrent solutions (LSTM,
and Transformer with recency-biased scratchpad training) maintain perfect accuracy.




                                                           9
ways; a natural question is whether these findings are robust to various challenges that arise in practice. In
this section, we investigate the robustness of the shallow Transformer solutions, compared to those found by
RNNs (the “natural” architecture for simulating semiautomata). We consider harder forms of supervision
(Section 5.1) and evaluation (Section 5.2); details are deferred to Appendix B.2.

5.1    Incomplete and indirect supervision
Successful learning with partial observations. Consider the case of partial observability. For any
semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ) and a (generally non-invertible) observation function ϕ : Q → Q̃, we can define
the problem of predicting q̃t := ϕ(qt ). If we can only obtain observations q̃t (i.e., the state is latent), this
fully captures the problem of learning a finite-state automaton from data. The results in this paper have
shown that this is equivalent to the fully-observable case in terms of representation. However, the learning
problem can be much harder; indeed, this may account for Bhattamishra et al. (2020)’s negative results on
learning regular languages with constant-depth Transformers. Note that this also captures autoregressive
next-token prediction tasks induced by distributions (e.g., generating Dyck languages (Yao et al., 2021))
where the sequence’s continuations depend on a latent semiautomaton’s state (e.g., the current stack for
Dyck). Despite these potential challenges, we find that Transformers are able to find solutions with good
in-distribution performance for all partially observable settings we consider; see Figure 5a.

Learning from incomplete state sequences: RNNs are better. Next, we consider the setting which
is identical to that described in Section 4, but each state qt is randomly revealed from the training data with
some probability 0 ≤ preveal ≤ 1. As with partial observability, this does not affect representation issues,
but can make learning/optimization much harder. Figure 5b shows the accuracy of S5 for models trained
on length 100 sequences for various preveal . It can be seen that Transformers may be unable to find good
solutions when the labels become sparser, whereas LSTM’s performance stays robust across all choices of
preveal .

5.2    Out-of-distribution shortcomings of shortcut solutions
Out-of-distribution generalization: RNNs are better. The theoretical construction of modular
counters (Lemma 6) suggests a possible failure mode: if attention performs prefix addition and the MLP
computes the sum modulo n, the MLP could fail on sums unseen during training. This suggests that if
the distribution over σ1:T shifts between training and testing (but the semiautomaton remains the same), a
non-recurrent shortcut solution might map inputs into an intermediate latent variable space (like the sum)
which fails to generalize.
Indeed, we observe that with the same models which obtain the positive in-distribution results in Section 4,
accuracy degrades as distribution shift increases; see Figure 6 (left), where the performance drops as the
probability of seeing input σ = 1 deviates from the training distribution (Pr[σ = 1] = 0.5). From the
viewpoint of mechanistic interpretation, one possible explanation is that Transformers learn shortcuts that
calculates parity by first counting the number of 1s in the input sequence then computing modulo 2, and
hence struggle to deal with sequences where the count is less frequently during training. To verify this
hypothesis, we further compare the accuracy against number of 1s in the sequence (Figure 6 (right)); details
are deferred to Appendix B.

Length generalization: RNNs are better. More ambitiously, we could try to use these models to extrap-
olate to longer sequence lengths T than those seen in the training data. Promoting this difficult desideratum of
length generalization is an intricate problem in its own right; see Anil et al. (2022), Yao et al. (2021) for more
experiments similar to ours. Figure 7 shows the performance on sequences of various lengths. In contrast to
LSTM’s perfect performance on all scenarios, Transformer’s accuracy drops sharply as we move to lengths un-
seen during training. This is not purely due to unseen values of the positional encoding: randomly shifting the
positions during training can cover all the positions seen during testing, which helps improve the length gener-
alization performance but cannot make it perfect; we see similar results for removing positional encodings alto-
gether. Finally, we empirically show that the above flaws are circumventable. Using a combination of scratchpad


                                                       10
(a.k.a. “chain-of-thought”) (Nye et al., 2021, Wei et al., 2022) and recency bias (Press et al., 2022), we demon-
strate that Transformers can be guided towards learning recurrent (depth-T ) solutions, which generalize out-
of-distribution and to longer sequence lengths (Figure 7, yellow curves). Details are deferred to Section B.2.3.

Discussion: shortcuts as “unintended” solutions. Throughout the deep learning literature, the term
shortcut is often used to refer to undesired (i.e., misleading, spurious, or overfitting) statistical properties of
learned representations (Geirhos et al., 2020, Robinson et al., 2021). Meanwhile, under our computational
(o(T ) circuit depth) definition, shortcut solutions are perfectly valid ways to represent recurrent computations.
The results in this section establish a connection between these notions: partially-learned computational
shortcuts can be statistical shortcuts. Specifically, a non-recurrent architecture can “hallucinate” intermediate
variables other than the state (e.g. the “count” variable for the parity automaton), is thus sensitive to the
coverage of these variables in the training data. This leads to out-of-distribution generalization failures (e.g.
on rare counts) which are not present in recurrent models.

Computational-statistical tradeoffs. The experiments in this section highlight a statistical penalty for
learning recurrent computations with a non-recurrent architecture. However, the computational advantage of a
shallow architecture is extremely appealing: maximally leveraging parallel computation, training and inference
can be done much faster (O(log T ) or O(1) time, compared to O(T )). This highlights a delicate tradeoff
between RNNs and Transformers, where neither architecture dominates the other, even when considering this
elementary class of algorithmic problems. Attaining the best of both worlds with a practical architecture is
an interesting avenue for future work.


6     Conclusions and future work
We have conducted a theoretical and empirical analysis of how shallow Transformers can learn shortcuts
to the recurrent computations of finite-state automata. These shortcuts replace T sequential iterations of
a recurrent unit with a single pass through L  T parallel self-attention layers. Our theoretical results
show that shortcuts are ubiquitous, and characterize extremely shallow ones (with L independent of the
context length T ) using algebraic machinery (Krohn-Rhodes theory). Empirically, we have shown that
gradient-based optimization successfully finds these shortcuts. While the solutions found in practice generalize
near-perfectly in-distribution (Section 4), they lack out-of-distribution robustness (Section 5). We hope that
these results shed new light on the internal reasoning mechanisms of Transformers, as well as the design space
for architectures capable of algorithmic reasoning.
Future work. This work is an initial foray into the interplay between neural architectures, algebraic
automata theory, and circuit complexity. We list some open questions:
 • Finer-grained circuit complexity of self-attention: For certain automata of interest (e.g. bounded Dyck
   language parsers (Yao et al., 2021), and the gridworld automata from Theorem 3), there exist extremely
   shallow Transformer solutions, with depth independent of both T and |Q|. Which other natural classes of
   automata have this property of “beyond Krohn-Rhodes” representability?
 • When and why does gradient-based optimization work? The precise understanding of hierarchical repre-
   sentation learning in neural networks is an active frontier of research. The empirical tractability of finding
   “algebraic” shortcut solutions with gradient descent is an especially striking case, as related problems are
   known to be PSPACE-hard (Cho and Huynh, 1991, ?, ?).
 • Mechanistic interpretability: Automaton simulation problems generate a rich class of challenging test
   cases for the reverse engineering of trained networks (see Nanda and Lieberum (2022)), and may yield
   further insights on the inductive biases of Transformers. In our preliminary attempts, we were only able
   to interpret a small number of simple models.




                                                        11
Acknowledgements
We are very grateful to Abhishek Shetty for helpful discussions about circuit complexity. We also thank
Ashwini Pokle for thoughtful comments and suggestions towards improving clarity and readability.


Reproducibility Statement
Complete proofs of the theoretical results are provided in Appendix C, with a self-contained tutorial of relevant
algebraic concepts in Appendix A.2. For the empirical results, all our datasets are derived from synthetic
distributions, which are clearly described in Appendix B.1 and B.2. The architectures, implementations (with
references to popular base repositories), and hyperparameters (including training procedure) are documented
in Appendix B.3. Our open-source data-generating code is available from our project page.


References
Cem Anil, Yuhuai Wu, Anders Andreassen, Aitor Lewkowycz, Vedant Misra, Vinay Ramasesh, Ambrose Slone,
  Guy Gur-Ari, Ethan Dyer, and Behnam Neyshabur. Exploring length generalization in large language
  models. arXiv:2207.04901, 2022.
Sanjeev Arora and Boaz Barak. Computational complexity: a modern approach. Cambridge University Press,
  2009.
Arpit Bansal, Avi Schwarzschild, Eitan Borgnia, Zeyad Emam, Furong Huang, Micah Goldblum, and
 Tom Goldstein. End-to-end algorithm synthesis with recurrent networks: Logical extrapolation without
  overthinking. arXiv:-2202.05826, 2022.
Boaz Barak, Benjamin L Edelman, Surbhi Goel, Sham Kakade, Eran Malach, and Cyril Zhang. Hidden
  progress in deep learning: SGD learns parities near the computational limit. arXiv:2207.08799, 2022.
David A. Mix Barrington. Bounded-width polynomial-size branching programs recognize exactly those
 languages in NC1 . In Symposium on the Theory of Computing, 1986.
David A. Mix Barrington and Denis Thérien. Finite monoids and the fine structure of NC1 . Journal of the
 ACM, 1988.
Satwik Bhattamishra, Kabir Ahuja, and Navin Goyal. On the ability and limitations of transformers to
  recognize formal languages. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2020.
Michael M Bronstein, Joan Bruna, Taco Cohen, and Petar Veličković. Geometric deep learning: Grids, groups,
 graphs, geodesics, and gauges. arXiv:2104.13478, 2021.
Ashok K Chandra, Steven Fortune, and Richard Lipton. Unbounded fan-in circuits and associative functions.
  In Symposium on Theory of Computing, 1983.
Lili Chen, Kevin Lu, Aravind Rajeswaran, Kimin Lee, Aditya Grover, Michael Laskin, Pieter Abbeel, Aravind
  Srinivas, and Igor Mordatch. Decision transformer: Reinforcement learning via sequence modeling. In
  Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021a.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan,
 Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger,
 Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder,
 Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philipp Tillet,
 Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel
 Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin,
 Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leiki, Josh
 Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati,
 Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech
 Zaremba. Evaluating large language models trained on code. arXiv:2107.03374, 2021b.


                                                       12
Sang Cho and Dung T Huynh. Finite-automaton aperiodicity is PSPACE-complete. Theoretical Computer
  Science, 1991.
Noam Chomsky and Marcel P Schützenberger. The algebraic theory of context-free languages. In Studies in
 Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics. 1959.

Xiangxiang Chu, Zhi Tian, Bo Zhang, Xinlong Wang, Xiaolin Wei, Huaxia Xia, and Chunhua Shen. Conditional
  positional encodings for vision transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.10882, 2021.
Kevin Clark, Urvashi Khandelwal, Omer Levy, and Christopher D. Manning. What does BERT look at?
 An analysis of BERT’s attention. In ACL Workshop BlackboxNLP: Analyzing and Interpreting Neural
 Networks for NLP, 2019.

George Cybenko. Approximation by superpositions of a sigmoidal function. Mathematics of Control, Signals
 and Systems, 1989.
Amit Daniely. Depth separation for neural networks. In Conference on Learning Theory, pages 690–696.
 PMLR, 2017.

Amit Daniely and Eran Malach. Learning parities with neural networks. Advances in Neural Information
 Processing Systems, 2020.
Mostafa Dehghani, Stephan Gouws, Oriol Vinyals, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Lukasz Kaiser. Universal transformers.
 In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2019.
Grégoire Delétang, Anian Ruoss, Jordi Grau-Moya, Tim Genewein, Li Kevin Wenliang, Elliot Catt, Marcus
  Hutter, Shane Legg, and Pedro A Ortega. Neural networks and the chomsky hierarchy. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2207.02098, 2022.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional
  transformers for language understanding. arXiv:1810.04805, 2018.
Iddo Drori, Sarah Zhang, Reece Shuttleworth, Leonard Tang, Albert Lu, Elizabeth Ke, Kevin Liu, Linda
  Chen, Sunny Tran, Newman Cheng, Roman Wang, Nikhil Singh, Taylor L. Patti, Jayson Lynch, Avi
  Shporer, Nakul Verma, Eugene Wu, and Gilbert Strang. A neural network solves, explains, and generates
  university math problems by program synthesis and few-shot learning at human level. Proceedings of the
  National Academy of Sciences, 2022.
Javid Ebrahimi, Dhruv Gelda, and Wei Zhang. How can self-attention networks recognize Dyck-n languages?
  In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP, 2020.
Benjamin L Edelman, Surbhi Goel, Sham Kakade, and Cyril Zhang. Inductive biases and variable creation in
  self-attention mechanisms. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2022.
Attila Egri-Nagy and Chrystopher L Nehaniv. Computational holonomy decomposition of transformation
  semigroups. arXiv:1508.06345, 2015.

Samuel Eilenberg. Automata, languages, and machines. Academic Press, 1974.
Ronen Eldan and Ohad Shamir. The power of depth for feedforward neural networks. In Conference on
 learning theory, pages 907–940. PMLR, 2016.
Nelson Elhage, Neel Nanda, Catherine Olsson, Tom Henighan, Nicholas Joseph, Ben Mann, Amanda Askell,
 Yuntao Bai, Anna Chen, Tom Conerly, Nova DasSarma, Dawn Drain, Deep Ganguli, Zac Hatfield-Dodds,
  Danny Hernandez, Andy Jones, Jackson Kernion, Liane Lovitt, Kamal Ndousse, Dario Amodei, Tom
  Brown, Jack Clark, Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, and Chris Olah. A mathematical framework for
  transformer circuits. Transformer Circuits Thread, 2021. URL https://transformer-circuits.pub/
  2021/framework/index.html.




                                                    13
Merrick Furst, James B. Saxe, and Michael Sipser. Parity, circuits, and the polynomial-time hierarchy.
 Mathematical Systems Theory, 1984.
Robert Geirhos, Jörn-Henrik Jacobsen, Claudio Michaelis, Richard Zemel, Wieland Brendel, Matthias Bethge,
  and Felix A Wichmann. Shortcut learning in deep neural networks. Nature Machine Intelligence, 2020.

Angeliki Giannou, Shashank Rajput, Jy-yong Sohn, Kangwook Lee, Jason D Lee, and Dimitris Papailiopoulos.
 Looped transformers as programmable computers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.13196, 2023.
Surbhi Goel, Varun Kanade, Adam Klivans, and Justin Thaler. Reliably learning the ReLU in polynomial
  time. In Conference on Learning Theory, 2017.
Alex Graves. Adaptive computation time for recurrent neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.08983,
  2016.
Alex Graves, Greg Wayne, and Ivo Danihelka. Neural turing machines. arXiv preprint arXiv:1410.5401, 2014.
Jiatao Gu, James Bradbury, Caiming Xiong, Victor O.K. Li, and Richard Socher. Non-autoregressive neural
  machine translation. arXiv:1711.02281, 2017.

Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Jimmy Ba, and Mohammad Norouzi. Dream to control: Learning behaviors
  by latent imagination. arXiv:1912.01603, 2019.
Michael Hahn. Theoretical limitations of self-attention in neural sequence models. Transactions of the
 Association for Computational Linguistics, 2020.

Adi Haviv, Ori Ram, Ofir Press, Peter Izsak, and Omer Levy. Transformer language models without positional
  encodings still learn positional information. arXiv:2203.16634, 2022.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In
 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2016.
Christoph Hertrich, Amitabh Basu, Marco Di Summa, and Martin Skutella. Towards lower bounds on the
 depth of ReLU neural networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
W Daniel Hillis and Guy L. Steele Jr. Data parallel algorithms. Communications of the ACM, 1986.
Kurt Hornik, Maxwell Stinchcombe, and Halbert White. Multilayer feedforward networks are universal
 approximators. Neural networks, 1989.

Jeremy Howard and Sebastian Ruder.         Universal language model fine-tuning for text classification.
  arXiv:1801.06146, 2018.
DeLesley Hutchins, Imanol Schlag, Yuhuai Wu, Ethan Dyer, and Behnam Neyshabur. Block-recurrent
 transformers. arXiv:2203.07852, 2022.
Michael Janner, Qiyang Li, and Sergey Levine. Offline reinforcement learning as one big sequence modeling
 problem. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
Jungo Kasai, Hao Peng, Yizhe Zhang, Dani Yogatama, Gabriel Ilharco, Nikolaos Pappas, Yi Mao, Weizhu
  Chen, and Noah A Smith. Finetuning pretrained transformers into rnns. arXiv:2103.13076, 2021.
Guolin Ke, Di He, and Tie-Yan Liu. Rethinking positional encoding in language pre-training. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2006.15595, 2020.
Daniel J Kleitman, Bruce R Rothschild, and Joel H Spencer. The number of semigroups of order n. Proceedings
 of the American Mathematical Society, 1976.
László Kovács and Cheryl Praeger. Finite permutation groups with large abelian quotients. Pacific Journal
  of Mathematics, 1989.



                                                    14
Marc Krasner and Léo Kaloujnine. Produit complet des groupes de permutations et probleme d’extension de
 groupes II. Acta Scientiarum Mathematicarum, 1951.
Kenneth Krohn and John Rhodes. Algebraic theory of machines, I: Prime decomposition theorem for finite
  semigroups and machines. Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 1965.

Guillaume Lample and François Charton. Deep learning for symbolic mathematics. arXiv:1912.01412, 2019.
Gustav Larsson, Michael Maire, and Gregory Shakhnarovich. FractalNet: Ultra-deep neural networks without
 residuals. arXiv:1605.07648, 2016.
Holden Lee, Rong Ge, Tengyu Ma, Andrej Risteski, and Sanjeev Arora. On the ability of neural nets to
 express distributions. In Conference on Learning Theory, pages 1271–1296. PMLR, 2017.

Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom Eccles, James
  Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas Hubert, Peter Choy, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Igor
  Babuschkin, Xinyun Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl, Sven Gowal, Alexey Cherepanov, James Molloy,
  Daniel J. Mankowitz, Esme Sutherland Robson, Pushmeet Kohli, Nando de Freitas, Koray Kavukcuoglu,
  and Oriol Vinyals. Competition-level code generation with alphacode. arXiv:2203.07814, 2022.

Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. Decoupled weight decay regularization. arXiv:1711.05101, 2017.
Oded Maler. On the Krohn-Rhodes cascaded decomposition theorem. In Time for Verification. 2010.
Oded Maler and Amir Pnueli. On the cascaded decomposition of automata, its complexity and its application
 to logic (Draft). 1994.

Carlo Mereghetti and Beatrice Palano. Threshold circuits for iterated matrix product and powering. RAIRO-
 Theoretical Informatics and Applications, 2000.
William Merrill, Yoav Goldberg, Roy Schwartz, and Noah A. Smith. On the power of saturated Transformers:
 A view from circuit complexity. arXiv:2106.16213, 2021.

Vincent Micheli, Eloi Alonso, and François Fleuret. Transformers are sample efficient world models.
  arXiv:2209.00588, 2022.
Anirbit Mukherjee and Amitabh Basu. Lower bounds over boolean inputs for deep neural networks with
 ReLU gates. arXiv:1711.03073, 2017.
Neel Nanda and Tom Lieberum.      A mechanistic interpretability analysis of grokking. Align-
 ment Forum,     2022.      URL https://www.alignmentforum.org/posts/N6WM6hs7RQMKDhYjB/
  a-mechanistic-interpretability-analysis-of-grokking.
Benjamin Newman, John Hewitt, Percy Liang, and Christopher D. Manning. The EOS decision and length
  extrapolation. In BlackboxNLP Workshop on Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP, 2020.

Eshaan Nichani, Yu Bai, and Jason D Lee. Identifying good directions to escape the NTK regime and
  efficiently learn low-degree plus sparse polynomials. arXiv:2206.03688, 2022.
Rodrigo Nogueira, Zhiying Jiang, and Jimmy Lin. Investigating the limitations of transformers with simple
  arithmetic tasks. arXiv:2102.13019, 2021.
Maxwell Nye, Anders Johan Andreassen, Guy Gur-Ari, Henryk Michalewski, Jacob Austin, David Bieber,
 David Dohan, Aitor Lewkowycz, Maarten Bosma, David Luan, Charles Sutton, and Augustus Odena. Show
 your work: Scratchpads for intermediate computation with language models. arXiv:2112.00114, 2021.
Christos H Papadimitriou and John N Tsitsiklis. The complexity of Markov decision processes. Mathematics
 of Operations Research, 1987.




                                                   15
Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen,
  Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison, Andreas K"opf, Edward Yang, Zach
  DeVito, Martin Raison, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and
  Soumith Chintala. PyTorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. Advances in
 Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019.

Jorge Pérez, Pablo Barceló, and Javier Marinkovic. Attention is turing complete. The Journal of Machine
  Learning Research, 22(1):3463–3497, 2021.
Matthew E. Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Matt Gardner, Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, and Luke
 Zettlemoyer. Deep contextualized word representations. arXiv:1802.05365, 2018.
Stanislas Polu and Ilya Sutskever.     Generative language modeling for automated theorem proving.
  arXiv:2009.03393, 2020.
Ofir Press, Noah Smith, and Mike Lewis. Train short, test long: Attention with linear biases enables input
  length extrapolation. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. Language models
  are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI blog, 2019.
John H. Reif and Stephen R. Tate. On threshold circuits and polynomial computation. SIAM Journal on
  Computing, 1992.
John Rhodes, Chrystopher L Nehaniv, and Morris W Hirsch. Applications of automata theory and algebra:
  via the mathematical theory of complexity to biology, physics, psychology, philosophy, and games. World
  Scientific, 2010.
Joshua Robinson, Li Sun, Ke Yu, Kayhan Batmanghelich, Stefanie Jegelka, and Suvrit Sra. Can contrastive
  learning avoid shortcut solutions? Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
Itay Safran, Ronen Eldan, and Ohad Shamir. Depth separations in neural networks: what is actually being
   separated? In Conference on Learning Theory, pages 2664–2666. PMLR, 2019.
Tal Schuster, Ashwin Kalyan, Alex Polozov, and Adam Kalai. Programming puzzles. In Advances in Neural
  Information Processing Systems Track on Datasets and Benchmarks, 2021.
Marcel Paul Schützenberger. On finite monoids having only trivial subgroups. Information and Control, 1965.

Avi Schwarzschild, Eitan Borgnia, Arjun Gupta, Furong Huang, Uzi Vishkin, Micah Goldblum, and Tom
  Goldstein. Can you learn an algorithm? generalizing from easy to hard problems with recurrent networks.
  In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
Hava T Siegelmann and Eduardo D Sontag. On the computational power of neural nets. In Conference on
 Learning Theory, 1992.

Matus Telgarsky. Benefits of depth in neural networks. In Conference on learning theory, pages 1517–1539.
 PMLR, 2016.
Ian Tenney, Dipanjan Das, and Ellie Pavlick. BERT rediscovers the classical NLP pipeline. arXiv:1905.05950,
  2019.
Aaron van den Oord, Sander Dieleman, Heiga Zen, Karen Simonyan, Oriol Vinyals, Alex Graves, Nal
 Kalchbrenner, Andrew Senior, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. WaveNet: A generative model for raw audio.
 arXiv:1609.03499, 2016.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser,
  and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2017.




                                                    16
Ashish Vaswani, Prajit Ramachandran, Aravind Srinivas, Niki Parmar, Blake A. Hechtman, and Jonathon
  Shlens. Scaling local self-attention for parameter efficient visual backbones. In IEEE Conference on
 Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021.
Jesse Vig. Visualizing attention in transformer-based language representation models. arXiv:1904.02679,
  2019.

Kevin Wang, Alexandre Variengien, Arthur Conmy, Buck Shlegeris, and Jacob Steinhardt. Interpretability in
  the wild: a circuit for indirect object identification in gpt-2 small. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.00593, 2022.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and
  Denny Zhou. Chain of thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. arXiv:2201.11903,
  2022.

Gail Weiss, Yoav Goldberg, and Eran Yahav. Thinking like Transformers. In International Conference on
 Machine Learning, 2021.
Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric
 Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara
 Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin
 Lhoest, and Alexander M. Rush. Huggingface’s transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing.
 arXiv:1910.03771, 2019.
Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Quoc V Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey, Maxim
  Krikun, Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus Macherey, Jeff Klingner, Apurva Shah, Melvin Johnson, Xiaobing
  Liu, Łukasz Kaiser, Stephan Gouws, Yoshikiyo Kato, Taku Kudo, Hideto Kazawa, Keith Stevens, George
  Kurian, Nishant Patil, Wei Wang, Cliff Young, Jason Smith, Jason Riesa, Alex Rudnick, Oriol Vinyals,
  Greg Corrado, Macduff Hughes, and Jeffrey Dean. Google’s neural machine translation system: Bridging
  the gap between human and machine translation. arXiv:1609.08144, 2016.
Yisheng Xiao, Lijun Wu, Junliang Guo, Juntao Li, Min Zhang, Tao Qin, and Tie-yan Liu. A survey on
  non-autoregressive generation for neural machine translation and beyond. arXiv:2204.09269, 2022.

Keyulu Xu, Mozhi Zhang, Jingling Li, Simon S Du, Ken-ichi Kawarabayashi, and Stefanie Jegelka. How
 neural networks extrapolate: From feedforward to graph neural networks. arXiv:2009.11848, 2020.
Shunyu Yao, Binghui Peng, Christos H. Papadimitriou, and Karthik Narasimhan. Self-attention networks
  can process bounded hierarchical languages. In Association for Computational Linguistics, 2021.

Weirui Ye, Shaohuai Liu, Thanard Kurutach, Pieter Abbeel, and Yang Gao. Mastering atari games with
 limited data. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021.
H Paul Zeiger. Cascade synthesis of finite-state machines. Information and Control, 1967.
Chiyuan Zhang, Maithra Raghu, Jon Kleinberg, and Samy Bengio. Pointer value retrieval: A new benchmark
  for understanding the limits of neural network generalization. arXiv:2107.12580, 2021a.
Linjun Zhang, Zhun Deng, Kenji Kawaguchi, Amirata Ghorbani, and James Zou. How does mixup help with
  robustness and generalization? In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021b.
Yi Zhang, Arturs Backurs, Sébastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan, Suriya Gunasekar, and Tal Wagner. Unveiling
  Transformers with LEGO: a synthetic reasoning task. arXiv:2206.04301, 2022.

Karl-Heinz Zimmermann. On Krohn-Rhodes theory for semiautomata. arXiv:2010.16235, 2020.




                                                      17
Appendix
Table of Contents
   A Additional background and notation                                                                         19
     A.1 Notation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
     A.2 Automata, semigroups, and groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         19
     A.3 Shallow circuit complexity classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
     A.4 The Transformer architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24
     A.5 Additional discussion of related work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      26

   B Experiments                                                                                                29
     B.1 Section 4: SGD finds the shortcuts, under ideal supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          29
     B.2 Section 5: Failures of shortcuts in more challenging settings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
     B.3 Additional details . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40

   C Proofs                                                                                                     40
     C.1 Useful definitions and lemmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      40
     C.2 Proof of Theorem 1: Logarithmic-depth shortcuts via parallel prefix sum . . . . . . . . . .            43
     C.3 Proof of Theorem 2: Constant-depth shortcuts via Krohn-Rhodes decomposition . . . . .                  45
     C.4 Proof of Theorem 3: Even shorter shortcuts for gridworld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           60
     C.5 Proof of Theorem 4: Depth lower bound for non-solvable semiautomata . . . . . . . . . .                67




                                                         18
A      Additional background and notation
A.1     Notation
Below, we list our notational conventions for indices, vectors, matrices, and functions.
    • For a natural number n, [n] denotes the index set {1, 2, . . . , n}.
    • For a vector v ∈ Rn and i ∈ [n], vi denotes the i-th entry. When v is an expression, we use [v]i for
      clarity. Vectors can be instantiated by square brackets (like [1 2 3] ∈ R3 ). They can be indexed by
      slices: va:b denotes [va va+1 . . . vb ]. We adhere to the convention that all vectors are column vectors.
    • For a matrix M ∈ Rm×n , i ∈ [m], j ∈ [n]: Mij (or [M ]ij ) denotes the (i, j)-th entry. Mi,: and M:,j
      denote the i-th row and j-th column, respectively. Importantly, we note the convention that this “slice”
      notation converts all vectors into column vectors.
    • When the first dimension of a matrix M ∈ RT ×d is to be interpreted as a sequence length, we will
      implicitly convert a sequence of vectors v1 , . . . , vT ∈ Rd into a matrix (v1 , . . . , vT ) ∈ RT ×d whose rows
      the vectors vt . This is an arbitrary choice (compared to concatenating columns and obtaining a matrix
      in Rd×T ), selected to adhere to previously standardized notation for the Transformer.
    • We will sometimes index vectors and matrices with named indices (such as ⊥ for padding tokens)
      instead of integers, for clarity.
    • ei denotes the i-th elementary (one-hot) unit vector. Likewise as above, we sometimes use non-integer
      indices (e.g. e⊥ ).
    • For vectors u, v ∈ Rd , hu, vi = u> v both denote the inner product.
    • For a function f : X × Y → Z and all y ∈ Y , we will let f (·, y) : X → Z denote the restriction of f
      to y (and similarly for other restrictions). This appears in the per-input state transition functions
      δ(·, σ) : Q → Q, as well as the functions represented by neural networks for a particular choice of
      weights.
    • For functions f, g, f ◦ g denotes composition: (f ◦ g)(x) := f (g(x)). When we compose neural networks
      f : X × Θf → Y, g : Y × Θg → Z with parameter spaces Θf , Θg , we will use f ◦ g : X × (Θf × Θg ) → Z
      to indicate the composition f (g(x; θg )θf ).
    • (·)+ : R → R denotes the ReLU (a.k.a. positive part) function: (x)+ = max{x, 0}. In function
      compositions, we use σ to denote the entry-wise ReLU (e.g. f ◦ σ ◦ g).

A.2     Automata, semigroups, and groups
Recall that a semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ) has a state space Q, an input alphabet Σ, and a transition
function δ : Q × Σ → Q. For any natural number T and a starting state q0 ∈ Q, by repeated composition of
the transition function δ, one can use A to define a map from a sequence of inputs (σ1 , . . . , σT ) ∈ ΣT to a
sequence of states (q1 , . . . , qT ) ∈ QT via:

                                             qt := δ(qt−1 , σt ), ∀t ∈ [T ].

Here and below, it is helpful to use a matrix-vector notation to express the computation of semiautomata.
For a given semiautomaton we can always identify the state space Q with index set {1, . . . , |Q|} and use
a one-hot encoding of states into {0, 1}|Q| . For each input symbol σ ∈ Σ, we associate a transition matrix
δ(·, σ) ∈ {0, 1}|Q|×|Q| with entries [δ(·, σ)]q0 ,q = 1{δ(q, σ) = q 0 }. This implies that for all q, σ, we have
eδ(q,σ) = δ(·, σ)eq , so that the computation of the semiautomaton amounts to repeated matrix-vector
multiplication.
While semiautomata are remarkably expressive, we discuss a few simple examples throughout this background
section to elucidate the key concepts.



                                                           19
Example 1 (Parity). Let Q = Σ = {0, 1} and let δ(q, 0) = q and δ(q, 1) = 1 − q. Then, starting with q0 = 0,
the state at time t, qt , is 1 if the binary sequence (σ1 , . . . , σt ) has an odd number of 1s.
Example 2 (Flip-flop). Let Q = {1, 2}, Σ = {⊥, 1, 2} and let δ be given by
                                                                                            
                                                     1 1                  0                   0
                        δ(·, ⊥) = I2×2 , δ(·, 1) =         , δ(·, 2) =
                                                     0 0                  1                   1
As the name suggests, this semiautomaton implements a simple memory operation where the state at time t
is the value of the most recent non-⊥ input symbol.
Example 3 (1D gridworld). Let S be a natural number, Q = {0, 1, . . . , S} and Σ = {L, ⊥, R}. Then the
transition matrices are given by:
                                             .
                                         1 ..
                                                                                            
                                                                             0  ...  . . . 0.
                                        0                                 .
                                                                          ..               .. 
                                           .   IS×S      
         δ(·, ⊥) = IS+1×S+1 , δ(·, L) =            .. 
                                                       .  δ(·, R) = 
                                                                                               .
                                         ..
                                                                         
                                                                               IS×S .      0
                                         0 ...  ...  0                                 .. 1

This semiautomaton describes the movement of an agent along a line segment where actions −1 and +1
correspond to decrementing and incrementing the state respectively, except that the decrement input has no
effect at state 0 and the increment input has no effect at state S.
Note that we have chosen a convention which differs slightly from the main paper (i.e. Figure 1): we
enumerate the indices starting from 0 rather than 1. This is because the proofs are stated more naturally
when the boundaries of the gridworld are identified with the indices 0 and S.
For a semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ) each input symbol σ ∈ Σ defines a function δ(·, σ) : Q → Q. These
functions can be composed in the standard way, and we use δ(·, σ1:t ) to denote the t-fold function composition.
Note that δ(q0 , σ1:t ) is precisely the value of the state at time t on input σ1:t . Thus, the set of all functions
that can be obtained by composition of the transition operator, formally
                                          T (A) := {δ(·, σ1:t ) : t ∈ N, σ1:t ∈ Σt },
plays a central role in describing the computation of the semiautomaton. This object is a transformation
semigroup. We now turn to describing the necessary algebraic background.
Recall that a group (G, ·) is a set G equipped with a binary operation · : G × G → G such that
    • (identity) There exists an identity element e ∈ G such that e · g = g · e = g for all g ∈ G.
    • (invertibility) Every element g ∈ G has an inverse g −1 ∈ G such that g · g −1 = g −1 · g = e
    • (associativity) The binary operation is associative: (g1 · g2 ) · g3 = g1 · (g2 · g3 ).
A monoid is less structured than a group; there must be an identity element and the binary operation must
be associative, but invertibility is relaxed. A semigroup is even less structured: the only requirement is that
the binary operation is associative.
It is common to let G be a subset of functions from Q → Q where Q is some ground set and let the binary
operation be function composition. In this case, the structure is called a permutation group or transformation
monoid/semigroup depending on which subset of the above properties hold. For transformation groups,
since every element has an inverse under function composition, it is immediate that every element is some
permutation over the ground set.
In fact, taking G to be a subset of functions as above is without loss of generality: by Cayley’s theorem every
group is isomorphic (equivalent after renaming elements) to a transformation group on some ground set, and
we can take the ground set to have the same number of elements as the original group (for finite groups).
Analogously, all semigroups are isomorphic to a transformation semigroup, but the ground set may need
one additional element (for the identity); this is Cayley’s theorem for semigroups. It is also clear that every
transformation semigroup can be realized by some semiautomaton by trivially having the input symbols
correspond to the functions in G.9 Therefore we have lost no structure when passing from finite semiautomata
9 More succinctly, inputs can correspond to a generating set of the group, but this is not relevant for our results.




                                                               20
to finite semigroups.
Before discussing the compositional structure of semigroups, we give one more canonical example.
Example 4 (Cyclic group). Let S be a natural number let Q = {0, 1, . . . , S − 1} and let Σ = {1} have only
one element. The dynamics are given by δ(q, 1) = (q + 1) mod S. Clearly this semiautomaton implements
counting modulo S. The underlying group is the cyclic group, denoted CS , which is isomorphic to the integers
mod S with addition as the binary operation. Note that in this case, the operation is commutative, which
makes the group abelian.
Let us now turn to the compositional structure of groups and semigroups. Since it is without loss of generality
to consider transformation (semi)groups, we always take the binary operation to be function composition.
A subgroup H of a group G is a subset of the elements of G that is also a group, denoted as H ≤ G. In
particular it must be closed under the binary operation. N is a normal subgroup, denoted N / G, if in addition
to being a subgroup, it satisfies that {gn : n ∈ N } = {ng : n ∈ N }. (These sets are known as the left and
right cosets of N in G and denoted gN and N g respectively.) 10 Normal subgroups can also arise as the
kernel of a mapping from G to a subgroup H of G. Let φ : G → H be a mapping that preserves the group
operation (i.e., a group homomorphism) and let ker(φ) := {g : φ(g) = id}. Then ker(φ) is a normal subgroup
of G. We will see below that normal subgroups provide a weak form of commutativity, that allows us to
construct more complex groups out of simpler ones.

Direct products. The most natural way to compose larger groups from smaller ones is via the direct
product. Given two groups G and H, we can form a new group with elements {(g, h) : g ∈ G, h ∈ H} with a
binary operation that is applied component-wise (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 ) = (g · g 0 , h · h0 ) (here, · is overloaded to be
the group operation for all three groups). This direct product group is denoted G × H. In the context of
permutation groups, say G is a permutation group over ground set QG and H is over ground set QH . Then
G × H has ground set QG × QH and every function in G × H factorizes component-wise, i.e., every element
in G × H is identified with a permutation (qG , qH ) 7→ (g(qG ), h(qH )) where g ∈ G, h ∈ H.
Observe that G × H contains normal subgroups which are isomorphic to both G and H. To see this, take
N = {(eG , h) : h ∈ H} where eG is the identity element in G. Then since geG = eG g and since H is closed
under its group operation, we have (g, h)N = N (g, h) for all (g, h) ∈ G × H. A symmetric argument shows
that G is also a normal subgroup of the direct product.
Note that we can analogously define direct products in the absence of the group axioms, and thus for monoids
and semigroups. This gives a natural construction of the semigroup corresponding to moving around both axes
of a 2-dimensional rectangular gridworld, as a concatenation of two non-interacting 1-dimensional gridworlds:
Example 5 (2D gridworld). If GS is the transformation semigroup of the 1-d grid world with S + 1 states,
then GS × GS corresponds to a 2-dimensional gridworld. A semiautomaton that yields this transformation
semigroup has state space Q = {(i, j) : i, j ∈ {0, . . . , S}} and 5 actions: increment or decrement i or j, subject
to boundary effects, or do nothing.
The definition of direct product extends straightforwardly to more than two terms G1 × G2 × . . . × Gn ; we
identify the items with tuples (g1 , g2 , . . . , gn ).

Semidirect products. However, it is possible to compose larger groups so that one of the subgroups is
not a normal subgroup. This operation is called a semidirect product, with the group law (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 ) =
(g · φh (g 0 ), h · h0 ) for some φh to be defined later. Observe that in the direct product G × H, we have
constructed the elements from ordered pairs (g ∈ G, h ∈ H), lifting G and H into a shared product space (i.e.,
the Cartesian product of the underlying sets of G and H), defining the group operation as simply applying
those of G and H separately.
In fact, there are other ways, to define the group operation in the product space, but a difficulty arises: we
need to find other nontrivial multiplication rules on pairs (g, h), and we cannot take for granted that an
arbitrary binary operation satisfies the group axioms. We would like to define other operations (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 )
10 An equivalent definition of a normal group is a subgroup N such that g −1 ng ∈ N , ∀g ∈ G, n ∈ N .




                                                              21
which output an element of g and an element of h. An attempt would be to pick two arbitrary injective
homomorphisms φG , φH which embed G and H into a “shared space,” so that elements of G and H can be
multiplied together:
                            (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 ) := φG (g) · φH (h) · φG (g 0 ) · φH (h0 ).
However, we need to ensure that this group operation is closed. Since all elements of the group are of the
form (g, h) where g ∈ G and h ∈ H, we must find a pair (g̃, h̃) that yields the right hand side of the above
display when embedded into the shared space via φG , φH . For this, the most natural choice is g̃ = g · g 0 and
h̃ = h · h0 , and thus we must check that:

                   φG (g · g 0 ) · φH (h · h0 ) = φG (g) · φG (g 0 ) · φH (h) · φH (h0 )
                                              = φG (g) · φH (h) · φG (g 0 ) · φH (h0 ) = (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 )

However, the middle equality may not hold, because φG (g 0 ) and φH (h) are not guaranteed to commute.
(Observe that for the special case of g 7→ (g, eH ), h 7→ (eG , h), these two elements always commute, giving
rise to the direct product.)
Eliding φG , φH and simply using g, h as elements of the shared space, a sufficient condition for this to hold is
that hg 0 h−1 ∈ G, since then, for some g̃ ∈ G,

                             (g, h) · (g, h0 ) = ghg 0 (h−1 h)h0 = g(hg 0 h−1 )hh0 = gg̃hh0 ,

which is of the form φG (·) · φH (·) since both G and H are themselves closed. This condition is precisely that
G is a normal subgroup.
There is a degree of freedom here: for each pair h and g 0 , we can choose which element of G is given by
hg 0 h−1 . When we make this choice we must ensure all of the group axioms are preserved, e.g., when h = eH
we should always have eH g 0 eH = g 0 . Suppose we make this choice and define φh : g 7→ hgh−1 ∈ G (this φ is a
homomorphism from H → Aut(G), where Aut(·) denotes the automorphism group, the group of bijections on
G that preserve the group axioms, under composition). Then, these ordered pairs do indeed form a group,
but the group operation is

                                              (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 ) = gφh (g 0 )hh0

This object is the semidirect product, and it is denoted G o H. Note that the choice of mapping φ is
unspecified in the notation, and, in general, different choices of φ will yield different structures for the
semidirect product.
Finally, when G = N o H, both N and H are subgroups of G, but N is also a normal subgroup. To see
this, we need to check that hN = N h for any h ∈ H. This is equivalent to hnh−1 ∈ N for each h, n, but we
defined the group operation to be hnh−1 = φh (n) ∈ N , specifically so this would hold. On the other hand,
H may not be a normal subgroup, and in this sense the semidirect product is a generalization of the direct
product (for which both subgroups are normal). However, when the mapping φ is trivial, that is φh (n) = n
then both N and H are normal subgroups, and one can verify that in this case the semidirect product and
direct product coincide.
Example 6 (Dihedral group). Consider a semiautomaton with Q = {0, . . . , S − 1} × {−1, +1} and input
alphabet Σ = {advance, reverse}. The transitions are given by:

                                         δ((s, b), advance) = (s + b mod S, b)
                                          δ((s, b), reverse) = (s, −b)

The transformation semigroup for this semiautomaton is CS o C2 where CS is the cyclic group on S elements
(cf. Example 4). C2 has two elements, the identity e and one element h such that hh = e. CS has S elements
where each element g is a function that adds some number k ∈ {0, . . . , S − 1} to the input modulo S. The
inverse g −1 is naturally to subtract k to the input, modulo S. The homomorphism φ in the semidirect product
is such that φe (g) = g and φh (g) = g −1 .


                                                              22
Wreath products. We define one more type of product between groups N and H: the wreath product
N o H := (N × . . . × N ) o H. This is a group containing |N ||H| · |H| elements (rather than |N | · |H|, like the
direct and semidirect products). Intuitively, it is defined by creating one copy of N per element in H via the
direct product, then letting H specify a way to exchange these copies. Formally, N o H is the unique group
generated by
                                       (g1 , . . . , g|H| , h) ∀gi ∈ N, h ∈ H,
where
                                                            0
                (g1 , . . . , g|H| , eH ) · (g10 , . . . , g|H|                                       0
                                                                , eH ) := (g1 · g10 , . . . , g|H| · g|H| , eH ) ∀gi , gi0 ∈ N,
and
               (g1 , . . . , g|H| , eH ) · (eN , . . . , eN , h) := (gπh (1) , . . . , gπh (|H|) , eH ) ∀gi ∈ N, h ∈ H,           (A.1)
where we have enumerated the elements of H in arbitrary order, such that each πh : [H] → [H] is the
permutation defined by right multiplication h0 7→ h0 h (by convention).
To write this explicitly as a semidirect product N o H := (N × . . . × N ) o H, the homomorphism into the
direct product’s automorphism group φ : H → Aut(N × . . . × N ) is given by A.1: for each h ∈ H, φ is the
automorphism defined by permuting the indices between the terms in the direct product, according to the
permutation induced by right multiplication by h.
Example 7 (Rubik’s Cube). A naive way to construct the Rubik’s Cube is to assign labels {1, . . . , 54} to the
stickers on the cube, and define the Rubik’s Cube group G via the sticker configurations reachable by the 6 face
turns (which each specify a permutation δL , δR , δU , δD , δB , δF : [54] → [54] of the stickers). This establishes G
as a subgroup of S54 . First, notice that the 6 central stickers never move (so this is really improvable to S48 ).
Next, notice that the 24 = 8 × 3 vertex stickers never switch places with the 24 = 12 × 2 edge stickers. The
vertex stickers form a subset of the wreath product C3 o S8 , while the edge stickers form a subset of the wreath
product C2 o S12 . In all, this realizes G as a subgroup of a direct product of wreath products:

                                                    G ≤ (C3 o S8 ) × (C2 o S12 ).

Among other consequences towards solving the Rubik’s Cube, this gives an improved upper bound on the size
of G (which turns out to still be off by a factor of 12, because of nontrivial invariants preserved by the face
rotations, a.k.a. unreachable configurations).

Quotients, simple groups, and maximal subgroups. When N is a normal subgroup of G, the quotient
group G/N is defined as {gN : g ∈ G} with binary operation (gN )(g 0 N ) = (gg 0 )N . The fact that N is a
normal subgroup implies that this is a well defined group. We can also check that if G = N o H then the
quotient group G/N is isomorphic to H, which matches the intuition for multiplication and division.
A G group is simple if it has no non-trivial normal subgroups. Intuitively, a simple group cannot be factorized
into components; this generalizes the fact that a prime number admits no non-trivial factorization. When G
is not simple then it has a non-trivial normal subgroup, say N . We call N proper if N 6= G. We call a proper
subgroup N maximal if there is no other proper normal subgroup N 0 / G such that N / N 0 . Equivalently,
N is a maximal proper normal subgroup if and only if G/N is simple. This is akin to extracting a prime
factor from a number, since the quotient group G/N cannot be further factorized. We will revisit this idea of
factorization when defining composition series and solvable groups in Section C.3.2.

Group extensions. Finally, we provide some additional terminology related to these different notions
of products, which provide a cleaner unifying language in which to state our constructions. Let N, H be
arbitrary groups. Which groups G contain a normal subgroup isomorphic N , such that the quotient G/N is
isomorphic to H? Such a group G is said to be an extension of N over H. The direct product G = N × H is
known as the trivial extension. A semidirect product G = N o H is known as a split extension. However,
not all extensions are split extensions; the smallest example is the quaternion group Q8 , the group of unit
quaternions {±1, ±i, ±j, ±k} under multiplication (i2 = j 2 = k 2 = ijk = −1), which cannot be realized
as a semidirect product of smaller groups. In general, it is very hard to derive interesting properties of a
group extension based on the properties of N and H. Fortunately, there is a characterization of general


                                                                     23
extensions. The Krasner-Kaloujnine universal embedding theorem (Krasner and Kaloujnine, 1951) states that
all extensions G can be found as subgroups of the wreath product N o H. The proof of Theorem 2 essentially
shows how to implement the different kinds of group extensions, given constructions which implement the
substructures N, H. In the worst case, we will have to implement a wreath product.

A.3     Shallow circuit complexity classes
We provide an extremely abridged selection of relevant concepts in circuit complexity. For a systematic
introduction, refer to (Arora and Barak, 2009). In particular, we discuss each circuit complexity class and
inclusion below:
                                    NC0 ⊂ AC0 ⊂ ACC0 ⊆ TC0 ⊆ NC1 .
   • NC0 is the class of constant-depth, constant-fan-in, polynomial-sized AND/OR/NOT circuits. If a
     constant-depth Transformer only uses the constant-degree sparse selection constructions in (Edelman
     et al., 2022), it can be viewed as representing functions in this class. However, the representational
     power of these circuits is extremely limited: they cannot express any function which depend on a
     number of inputs growing with T .
   • AC0 is the class of constant-depth, unbounded-fan-in, polynomial-sized AND/OR circuits, allowing
     NOT gates only at the inputs. A classic result is that the parity of T bits is not in AC0 (Furst et al.,
     1984); Hahn (2020) concludes the same for bounded-norm (and thus bounded-Lipschitz-constant)
     constant-depth Transformers.
   • ACC0 extends AC0 with an additional type of unbounded-fan-in gate known as MODm for arbitrary
     number m, which checks if the sum of the input bits is a multiple of m. Theorem 2 comes from the fact
     that the semigroup word problem (which is essentially identical to semiautomaton simulation) is in this
     class; see (Barrington and Thérien, 1988).
   • TC0 extends AC0 with an additional type of unbounded-fan-in gate called MAJ, which computes the
     majority of an odd number of input bits (a threshold gate). It is straightforward to simulate modular
     counters using a polynomial number of parallel thresholds (i.e. ACC0 ⊆ TC0 ). Whether this inclusion
     is strict (can you simulate a threshold in constant depth with modular counters? ) is a salient open
     problem in circuit complexity. Threshold circuits are a very natural model for objects of interest in
     machine learning like decision trees and neural networks (Merrill et al., 2021).
   • NC1 is the class of O(log T )-depth, constant-fan-in, polynomial-sized AND/OR/NOT circuits. It is an
     extremely popular and natural complexity class capturing efficiently parallelizable algorithms. It is
     unknown whether any of the inclusions in the “larger” classes TC0 ⊆ NC1 ⊆ L ⊆ P are strict.

A.4     The Transformer architecture
In this section, we define the Transformer function class used in our theoretical results, and discuss remaining
discrepancies with the true architecture.
An L-layer Transformer is a sequence-to-sequence network ftf : RT ×d × Θtf → RT ×d , consisting of alternating
self-attention blocks and feedforward blocks
                                            (L)    (L)        (L−1)            (1)
                                    ftf := fmlp ◦ fattn ◦ fmlp        ◦ ... ◦ fattn .

The parameter space Θtf is the Cartesian product of those of the individual blocks (without recurrent weight
sharing across layers, by default). We define these two types of blocks below.

Attention. A single-headed (H = 1) self-attention block is a sequence-to-sequence network fattn : RT ×d ×
Θattn → RT ×d , parameterized by θattn = (WQ , WK , WV , WC ). With an inner embedding dimension k, the
shapes of these matrices are as follows: WQ , WK , WV , WC> ∈ Rd×k . Each head, indexed by t ∈ [T ], computes
pairwise query-key alignment scores hWQ> xt , WK    xt i for each position t0 ∈ [T ], normalizes them with a
                                                  > 0

T -dimensional causally-masked softmax (forcing weights for positions t > t0 to be 0), and uses these attention


                                                         24
weights α ∈ RT to mix value embeddings:        t0 ∈[T ] αt0 WV xt0 . This mixture is mapped back into R by
                                                             >                                         d
                                             P
multiplying by WC , to form the t-th row of the output matrix. In a single equation:
                                                                      > >
                     fattn (X; WQ , WK , WV , WC ) := CausalAttn(XWQ WK X )XWV WC ,

where CausalAttn : RT ×T → RT ×T applies a row-wise causally-masked T -dimensional softmax function. The
standard softmax function softmax(z) : RT → RT is defined by

                                                                    ezt
                                           [softmax(z)]t := P                 z t0
                                                                                     ;
                                                                 t0 ∈[T ] e

the causally-masked softmax at row t is defined to be softmax(z1:t ) on the first t coordinates, and 0 on the
rest. To implement the causal masking operation, it is customary to set the entries above the diagonal of
the attention score matrix XWQ WK     X to −∞, then obtaining CausalAttn(XWQ WK
                                    > >
                                                                                         X ) via a row-wise
                                                                                        > >

softmax (letting e −∞
                      evaluate to 0).
In general, for any positive integer H, a multi-headed self-attention block consists of a sum of H copies of the
above construction, each with its own parameters.
This component is often called soft attention: the softmax performs continuous selection, taking a convex
combination of its inputs. In contrast, hard attention refers to attention heads which perform truly sparse
selection (putting weight 1 on the position with the highest score, and 0 on all others).

Feedforward MLP. An L0 -layer position-wise feedforward MLP block is a sequence-to-sequence network
fmlp : RT ×d × Θmlp → RT ×d , parameterized by θmlp = (W1 , b1 , . . . , WL0 , bL0 ). For a choice of activation
function σ : R → R (which is always ReLU in our theoretical constructions, for simplicity), fmlp applies
the same nonlinear map (x 7→ WL0 x + bL0 ) ◦ σ ◦ . . . ◦ σ ◦ (x 7→ W1 x + b1 ) to each row t of the input matrix
X ∈ RT ×d (with the same parameters per position t); here, σ is applied pointwise.
Finally, an extra term P ∈ RT ×d is added to the first layer’s input, the matrix of position encodings.

Residual connections. It is typical to add residual connections which bypass each block. That is, letting
id denote the identity function in RT ×d , the network (with position encodings) becomes
                                (L)           (L)              (L−1)                     (1)
                 ftf := (id + fmlp ) ◦ (id + fattn ) ◦ (id + fmlp      ) ◦ ... ◦ (id + fattn ) + (id + P ).

At the level of granularity of the results in this paper (up to negligible changes in the width and weight norms),
this changes very little from the viewpoint of representation. A residual connection can be implemented (or
negated) by appending two ReLU activations to a non-residual network:

                                                x = (x)+ − (−x)+ .

Similarly, a residual connection can be implemented with one attention head (with internal embedding
dimension k = d), as long as it is able to select its own position (which will be true in all of our constructions).
In some of our constructions, we choose to use residual connections (sometimes restricted to certain dimensions);
it will be very natural to view the embedding space Rd as a “workspace”, where residual connections ensure
that downstream layers can access the input (and position) embeddings, as well as outputs of all earlier
layers. We will specify whether to use residual connections in each construction, to make the proofs as clear
as possible. When we do so, we do not add the extra weights explicitly to fattn and fmlp .

Layer normalization. For simplicity of presentation, we omit the normalization layers which are usually
present after each attention and MLP block. It would be straightforward (but an unnecessary complication)
to modify the function approximation gadgets in our constructions to operate with unit-norm embeddings.




                                                          25
Padding tokens. Finally, it will greatly simplify the constructions to add padding tokens: to simulate a
semiautomaton at length T , we will choose to prepend τ tokens, with explicitly chosen embeddings, which
do not depend on the input σ1:T . Theorem 1 uses τ = Θ(T ) padding, and Theorem 2 uses τ = 1. In both
cases, padding is not strictly necessary (the same functionality could be implemented by the MLPs without
substantially changing our results), but we find that it leads to the most intuitive and concise constructions.

Complexity measures. We define the following quantities associated with a Transformer network, and
briefly outline their connection to familiar concepts in circuit complexity:
   • The dimensions according to the definition of a sequence-to-sequence network: sequence length T and
     embedding dimension d. Up to a factor of bit precision, this corresponds to the number of inputs in a
     classical Boolean circuit. We will exclusively define architectures where d is independent of T .
   • Its depth L, the number of repeated fmlp ◦ fattn blocks. When each of these modules contains a constant
     number of sequential computations, this coincides with the usual notion of circuit depth, up to a
     constant factor. This is true in practice and our theoretical treatment (the attention and MLP have a
     constant number of layers).
   • The other shape parameters from the definition of the architecture: number of heads (per layer and
     position) H 11 , and internal embedding dimension k. When fmlp is an L0 -layer MLP, it has MLP
     intermediate widths d1 , . . . , dL0 −1 . We will exclusively think of L0 as a small constant, so that the
     number of sequential matrix multiplications in the entire network is within a constant factor of L.
   • Its attention width wattn is defined to be the maximum of {d, Hk}, and its MLP width wmlp is defined
     as the maximum of {d1 , . . . , dL0 −1 }. Taking w = max(wattn , wmlp ) as a coarse upper bound we will use
     to summarize the number of per-position trainable embeddings in our constructions. To map this to the
     usual notion of circuit size, note that the computations are repeated position-wise. Thus, Transformers
     induce a computational graph with O(T · L · w) gates and O(T · L · w2 ) wires. The position-wise
     parameter-sharing induces a special notion of circuit uniformity.
   • A bound on its ∞-weight norms: the largest absolute value of any trainable parameter. These can be
     converted into norm-based generalization bounds via the results in Edelman et al. (2022). Note that the
     results in this paper go beyond the sparse variable creation constructions of bounded-norm attention
     heads; in general, the norms scale with T . The attention heads express meaningful non-sparse functions.
     Aside from the positive experimental results, we do not directly investigate generalization in this paper.
   • The bit precision (length of finite-precision truncation of real numbers in a computational graph
     implementing ftf ), which lets us implement approximate real-valued computations as Boolean (or
     discrete arithmetic) circuits. With infinite-precision real numbers, there are pathological constructions
     for RNNs (Siegelmann and Sontag, 1992) and Transformers (Merrill et al., 2021) which give single
     parameters of neural networks infinite representational power. Throughout this work, our circuits will
     work with O(log T ) bit precision, which can represent real numbers (as integers bx · 2c c in their binary
     representation, for some choice of c = Θ(log T )) with magnitude up to O(poly(T )), with O(1/poly(T ))
     approximation error. Since this is far from the focus of our results, we will elide details for the remainder
     of this paper, returning to these considerations only to make Theorem 4 more concrete. All of our
     constructions are robust up to this noise level: this is because the internal weight norms and activations
     are bounded by a quantity at most polynomial in T , and the function approximation construction in
     Lemmas 1 and 2 can tolerate 1/poly(T ) perturbations using poly(T ) weight norms.

A.5      Additional discussion of related work
Relevant applications. We first provide references for the “reasoning-like” applications of neural networks
mentioned in the main paper.
   • Program synthesis: (Chen et al., 2021b, Li et al., 2022, Schuster et al., 2021).
11 There will be a notational collision between h, H denoting attention heads, and h ∈ H denoting an element in a group. We

  keep the overloaded notation for clarity, and this will certainly be unambiguous.



                                                              26
   • Mathematical reasoning: (Drori et al., 2022, Lample and Charton, 2019, Polu and Sutskever, 2020).
   • Neural dynamics models for decision-making: recurrent (Hafner et al., 2019, Micheli et al., 2022, Ye
     et al., 2021) and non-recurrent (Chen et al., 2021a, Janner et al., 2021).

Synthetic combinatorial experiments (and relations). We provide an expanded discussion of empiri-
cal analyses of neural networks trained on synthetic combinatorial tasks.
   • Pointer Value Retrieval: Zhang et al. (2021a) propose a benchmark of tasks based on pointer value
     retrieval (PVR) to study the generalization ability (in-distribution as well as distribution shift) of
     different neural network architectures. Their key idea behind the task is “indirection through a pointer
     rule”, that is, a specific position of the input acts as a pointer to the relevant position (window) of the
     input which contains the answer. Using our results, we can implement a certain sub-class of PVR tasks:
     (1) we use the first attention layer to identify the pointer, and (2) we use the second attention layer to
     select the window between the pointer value and the width. (2) is doable with O(1) attention heads
     if we are computing a function that is based on the sum (for example, mod n). Otherwise it would
     require the window size number of attention heads similar to our grid-world construction.
   • LEGO: Zhang et al. (2022) propose a task based on solving a simple chain-of-reasoning problem based
     on group-based equality constraints. They study the ability of transformers to generalize the entire
     chain of reasoning given only part of the chain while training. A direct comparison to our setting is
     not clear since this task is not modelled as a sequence-to-sequence task, however it serves as another
     example of the emergence of “shortcut” solutions: transformers solve certain variables without resolving
     the chain of reasoning.
   • Dyck : Several works (Ebrahimi et al., 2020, Hahn, 2020, Newman et al., 2020, Yao et al., 2021) have
     studied the ability of Transformers to represent Dyck languages, both for generation and closing bracket
     prediction. The most closely related to our work is Yao et al. (2021), which constructs a clever depth-2
     as well as a depth-D solution for bounded-depth D Dyck languages. Bounded-depth Dyck can be
     captured by our semiautomata formalism and our main construction would recover the depth-2D
     solution by default. Their depth-2 construction bears semblance to the constructions we use in Theorem
     3: they implement a counter in the first layer similar to our mod n construction, and implement a
     proximity-based depth matching in the second layer. Our grid-world construction generalizes their
     construction to a significantly more complex problem. We view our work as a generalization of their
     results to a wider class of semiautomata.
   • Parity: Another commonly studied synthetic setup is the task of learning parities. Barak et al. (2022),
     Edelman et al. (2022) perform a theoretical and empirical study of the ability of Transformers (and
     other architectures) to learn sparse parities where the support size k  T . Bhattamishra et al. (2020),
     Schwarzschild et al. (2021) study the task of computing prefix sum in the binary basis (which is
     essentially parity of the prefix sum) for Transformers and recurrent models, repsectively. Anil et al.
     (2022), Wei et al. (2022) study essentially the same problem however they model the task as a natural
     language task and use pretrained Transformers.
   • Modular addition: In the pursuit of understanding grokking, Nanda and Lieberum (2022) focus on the
     task of adding two 5 digit numbers modulo a large prime (113 in their setting). They take the viewpoint
     of mechanistic interpretability and attempt to reverse engineer what the Transformer is learning on this
     task in the low sample regime. They claim that the trained model learns sinusoidal encodings that we
     also use in our theoretical constructions. Note that our setting of modular counters performs a T -way
     summation, while their setting involves only a 2-way summation (with carryover). Inspired by their
     work, we do some preliminary investigation into interpreting the trained Transformer on the grid world
     (see Figure 10).

Formal languages and neural networks. Dyck languages are particularly interesting for their com-
pleteness property: the Chomsky-Schützenberger representation theorem (Chomsky and Schützenberger,
1959) states that all context-free languages can be (homomorphically) represented by the intersection of a
Dyck language and a regular language. For more on this topic, see the discussion in Yao et al. (2021). In


                                                      27
the context of regular languages (which in general induce finite-state automata), our findings imply that
O(log T )-depth networks can simulate all context-free languages (Theorem 1), and O(1)-depth networks can
represent some of them. The obstructing regular languages are the ones whose associated syntactic monoids
are non-solvable. We further note that the gridworld semigroups are aperiodic and thus simulable by star-free
regular expressions (Schützenberger, 1965) and AC0 circuits (Barrington and Thérien, 1988, Chandra et al.,
1983). We did not see a way for this to generically entail O(1)-depth shortcuts with self-attention. For the
relation between the Chomsky hierarchy and various neural networks in practice, Delétang et al. (2022)
provide an extensive empirical study for memory-augmented RNNs and Transformers on tasks spanning all 4
levels of the hierarchy, and conclude the Transformers lack the ability to even recognize regular languages.
Their results do not contradict with ours, since they measure performance on “inductive inference”, which is
similar to our length generalization setup where we also see the failure of Transformer.

Different axes of generalization: length, size, and algorithmic. There has been much recent interest
in quantifying out of distribution generalization of trained models under distribution shifts that maintain
some notion of “logical” invariance. Anil et al. (2022), Wei et al. (2022) empirically investigate the ability of
pre-trained Transformers to generalize to longer sequence length for parity-like problems modelled as language
tasks. Xu et al. (2020) study size generalization in graph neural networks where they train on small graphs
and evaluate on larger sized graphs with similar structural properties. Bansal et al. (2022), Schwarzschild et al.
(2021) focus on length and algorithmic generalization for recurrent models where they train on simple/easy
instances of the underlying problem and evaluate on harder/complex instances using the power of recurrence
to simulate extra computational steps, inspired by the ideas of Neural Turing Machines (Graves et al., 2014)
and Adaptive Computation Time (Graves, 2016). We view our results as complementing those of Anil et al.
(2022), Yao et al. (2021) for a richer class of problems. Our use of scratchpad is inspired by Anil et al. (2022),
Nye et al. (2021), Wei et al. (2022).

Recurrent Transformers. Our work is not the first to notice that Transformer architectures make brittle
predictions out-of-distribution. Indeed, even the seminal paper introducing the architecture (Vaswani et al.,
2017) notes that length generalization is promoted by a subtle hyperparameter choice (namely, the positional
encoding scheme). Furthermore, there have been several attempts to reconcile this gap by modifying
Transformers to behave more like RNNs; (Anil et al., 2022, Dehghani et al., 2019, Hutchins et al., 2022,
Nye et al., 2021, Wei et al., 2022). Kasai et al. (2021) consider training a non-recurrent Transformer, and
finetuning it into an RNN. All of these works have some element of natural language experiments: either
the task is end-to-end language modeling, or the synthetic reasoning task is framed as a natural language
problem, for a pretrain-finetune pipeline. We view our work as strengthening the foundations of these lines of
inquiry. Theoretically, we provide structural guarantees for how shallow non-recurrent models can (perhaps
deceptively) fit recurrent dynamics over long sequences. Empirically, we perform a pure (no confounds arising
from the influence of a natural langauge corpus) analogue of the experiments seeking to help neural networks
follow long chains of reasoning.

Recurrent vs. non-recurrent sequence transduction. As mentioned briefly towards the end of
Section 5, the setting of indirectly-supervised semiautomata matches that of autoregressive generative
modeling (a.k.a. next-token prediction), if the continuations of the sequence depend on the state of a latent
semiautomaton. This is the case in (for example) generating Dyck languages (Yao et al., 2021), where the
possible continuations are {all possible open brackets, if the stack qt is not full} ∪ {close bracket which pairs
with the top of the stack qt }. We note that when an autoregressive model is used for sequence generation via
a token-by-token inference procedure, this amounts to a special case of scratchpad inference (with a naive
1-step training procedure): the constant-depth network is used as a single iteration of a recurrent network,
whose state is the completed prefix of the current generated sequence. Non-autoregressive natural language
generation and transduction are an exciting area of research (Gu et al., 2017); for a recent survey, see Xiao
et al. (2022). Our results are relevant to this line of work, suggesting that there may not be an expressivity
barrier to expressing deep recurrent linguistic primitives, but there may be issues with out-of-distribution
robustness.




                                                       28
Transformers as universal computation machines. Pérez et al. (2021) show that an infinite-precision
Transformer achieves Turing completeness, as a single forward pass through a 3-layer decoder can simulate
one transition step of a Turing machine. Giannou et al. (2023) exhibit a 13-layer Transformer whose weights
are hard-coded to a universal Turing machine, and can be looped to perform any computation. These works
show that one pass through a Transformer can implement a single computational step of a Turing machine.
In contrast, our results show how a shallow Transformer can sometimes execute a computational loop over
the entire context in a single non-recurrent pass. This requires a significantly more refined analysis, which
depends on the global algebraic structure induced by the automata in question.

Algebraic structures in deep learning. Another area where tools from abstract algebra are used to
reason about neural networks is geometric deep learning, a research program which seeks to understand how to
specify inductive biases stemming from algebraic invariances. For a recent survey, see Bronstein et al. (2021).
In contrast, this work studies the ability of a fixed architecture to learn a wide variety of algebraic operations,
in the absence of special priors (but a large amount of data). There are certainly possible connections (e.g.
“how do you bias an architecture to perform operations in a known group, when there is limited data?”) to
explore in future work.

Theoretical role of depth. Our theoretical results can be interpreted as a depth separation result:
contingent on TC0 6= NC1 , it takes strictly more layers to simulate non-solvable semiautomata, compared to
their solvable counterparts. In a similar spirit, there have been several works establishing depth separation
for feed-forward neural networks (mostly using ReLU activations) (Daniely, 2017, Eldan and Shamir, 2016,
Lee et al., 2017, Safran et al., 2019, Telgarsky, 2016). These results are usually constructive in nature, that
is, they show the existence√of functions that can be represented by depth L but would require exponential
width for depth L − 1 (or L, depending on the result).

Universal function approximation with other networks. More elementary neural architectures, such
as MLPs, have the ability to represent arbitrary functions, given sufficiently many neurons (Cybenko, 1989,
Hornik et al., 1989). The ACC0 circuit construction described in (Barrington and Thérien, 1988) can be
implemented by any such architecture, not just the Transformer– there is a naive black-box way to “compile”
each gate in the circuit into a network with the same depth as the ACC0 circuit. A natural question is: why,
then, should we prefer Transformers? The primary advantage of Transformers comes from the position-wise
weight sharing of the attention layers and the casual structure from causal attention maps. Unlike MLPs, the
shared parameters in Transformers allow for significant reduction in the total parameter count for representing
the two main operations across positions: modular counters, and resets. In particular, these functions can
be represented with O(1) trainable parameters in the attention and MLP weight matrices (i.e. independent
of T ), as opposed to the Θ(T ) parameters in a vanilla MLP, where position-wise parameter sharing is not
available. In a sense, the Transformer architecture is naturally suited for implementing this construction.


B       Experiments
B.1     Section 4: SGD finds the shortcuts, under ideal supervision
This section contains a full description and discussion of the in-distribution simulation experiments from
Section 4.

B.1.1     Shallow Transformers simulate small groups and semigroups
The main experiments in this paper investigate whether gradient-based training of Transformers finds low-
depth solutions to the problem of simulating semiautomata. In these experiments, we consider a wide variety
of semiautomata A, corresponding to various groups and semigroups, and construct a distribution DA over
input sequences (σ1 , . . . σT ) and their corresponding state sequences (q1 , . . . , qT ) = AT,q0 (σ1:T ). In each
setting, the σt are chosen uniformly at random from the set of valid tokens in Σ. 12 Given this distribution
12 Take for instance the Dyck language, if the current stack is empty, then σ is chosen uniformly from the choices of open
                                                                             t
  parentheses but not the closing parentheses. This is in accordance with Yao et al. (2021).


                                                             29
DA , and a sequence-to-sequence neural network (with a token embedding and a linear classification head)
                                                                   c θ (qt = q|σ1:t )), we establish the task of
which maps ΣT to token predictions Y ∈ RT ×|Q| (such that Yt,q := Pr
minimizing the cross-entropy loss
                                                   T
                                                1X
                                       L(θ) :=       log(1/Yt,qt ).
                                               T t=1
This defines a supervised learning problem over sequences.
Note that without intermediate states in the input these problems exhibit long-range dependencies: for
example, in the parity semiautomaton (and for any semiautomaton whose transformation semigroup is a
group), every qt depends on every preceding input {σt0 : t0 < t}. Indeed, this is why previous studies have
used group operations as a benchmark for reasoning (Anil et al., 2022, Zhang et al., 2022).

Settings. We proceed to enumerate the semiautomata considered in these simulation experiments.
    • Cyclic groups C2 , C3 , . . . , C8 . For each cyclic group Cn (realized as Q := {0, 1, . . . , n − 1} under mod-n
      addition), we choose the generator set Σ to be the full set of group elements {0, . . . , n − 1}. An
      alternative could be to let Σ be a minimal13 set {0, 1}, which we do not use in the experiments.
    • Direct products of cyclic groups C2 × C2 , C2 × C2 × C2 , realized as concatenated copies of the component
      semiautomata. Note that C6 (which is isomorphic to C2 × C3 ), included in the above set, is another
      example.
    • Dihedral groups D6 , D8 . Our realization of D2n chooses Q = {0, 1, . . . , n − 1} × {0, 1} and Σ =
      {(1, 0), (0, 1)}. Since these groups are non-abelian, it is already not so straightforward (compared to
      parity) to see why constant-depth shortcuts should exist.
    • Permutation groups A4 , S4 , A5 , S5 . We choose Q to be the set of n! permutations for Sn (symmetric
      group), and Q to be the set of n!  2 even permutations for An (alternating group on n elements). The
      generator set for Sn consists of the minimal generators, a transposition and an n-cycle, as well as 6
      other permutations. 14 For An , we choose the 3-cycles of the form (12i) for i ∈ {3, 4, · · · , n}. Note that
      A4 , S4 are solvable (leading to constant-depth shortcuts), while A5 , S5 are not. Also, note that to learn
      a constant-depth shortcut for A4 , a model needs to discover the wondrous fact that A4 has a nontrivial
      normal subgroup, that of its double transpositions.
    • The quaternion group Q8 . This is the smallest example of a non-abelian solvable group which is not
      realizable as a semidirect product of smaller groups, thus requiring the full wreath product construction
      (Lemma 10) in our theory.
    • The Dyck language Dyckn,k (correctly nested brackets of k types, with depth at most n). We take
      n = 4, k = 2 in the experiments. To realize Dyckn,k as a semiautomaton simulation problem, the state
                                                                                                 Pn
      Q is the state of the stack which implements Dyck language recognition (there are thus i=0 k i distinct
      states); 15 Σ is the set of 2k opening and closing brackets. The distribution in inputs is slightly different,
      since there is a notion of “illegal” inputs: if the stack is empty, then the set of feasible inputs contain
      all the opening brackets; if the stack is full (i.e. reaching depth n), then the only feasible input is the
      closing bracket for the opening bracket at the top of the stack.
    • Gridworld semiautomata Grid4 , Grid9 , where Q = {0, 1, · · · , n − 1} (for n = 4 or 9) and Σ = {±1}.16
      For this special case, we have a constant-depth solution as stated in Theorem 3.
13 In the sense that it induces a non-trivial learning problem on this group.If we only pick the generator {1}, the output sequence

  is deterministic, and there is no learning problem.
14 These other permutations are chosen following the ordering given by the sympy.combinatorics package. They are not necessary

   for covering the state space (since the minimal set of 2 permutations already suffice to cover Q), but can help speed up the
   mixing of the states.                                                                                       Pn
15 In the experiments we use (k + 1)n classes (i.e. each of the n positions can take (k + 1) possible values),       i
                                                                                                                i=0 k of which are
   reachable.
16 −1 for L, 1 for R. We omit the no-op ⊥ in the experiment which does not change the difficulty of the task.




                                                                30
Training. We focus on the online learning setting for all experiments in this paper: at training iteration i,
draw a fresh minibatch of samples from DA , compute the network’s loss and gradients on this minibatch, and
update the model’s weights using a standard first-order optimizer (we use AdamW (Loshchilov and Hutter,
2017)). This is to mitigate the orthogonal challenge of overfitting; note that the purpose of these experiments
is to determine whether standard gradient-based training finds shortcut solutions in these combinatorial
settings (in a reasonable amount of time), not how efficiently. We do not investigate how to improve sample
efficiency in this paper. The results in the paper are based on sinusoidal positional encodings (Vaswani et al.,
2017) unless otherwise specified.

Sequence length. We report our main results with sequence length T = 100, which is large enough to
rule out memorization: for this choice of T , the inputs come from a uniform distribution over |Σ|100 > 1030
sequences, rendering it overwhelmingly unlikely for a sample to appear twice between training and evaluation.
We observed positive results in most of the settings for larger T , but training became prohibitively unstable
and computationally expensive; mitigating this is an interesting direction for future empirically-focused
studies.

Depth. We seek to investigate the sufficient depth for learning to simulate each semiautomaton. Thus,
for each problem setting, we vary the number of layers L in the Transformer between 1 and 16. Note that
we do not attempt in this work to distinguish between depths O(log T ) and O(1), nor do we attempt to
tackle the problem of exhaustively enumerating and characterizing the shortcut solutions for any particular
semiautomaton.

Results. For each task and number of layers, we report the highest (Figure           8) and median (Figure 9)
accuracies over 20 runs. The accuracy is calculated at token level (i.e. T1 t∈[T ] 1[q̂t = qt ]), as opposed to
                                                                               P

the sequence-level accuracy (i.e. 1[q̂1:T = q1:T ]) as reported in Bhattamishra et al. (2020). We evaluate
in-distribution accuracy on independent (unseen) samples of DA , which contain 2048 sequences of length
T = 100. 17 As shown in Figure 8, Transformers, trained with standard gradient-based methods, are able
to find solutions which generalize well (in-distribution) on all of the tasks. Performance tends to improve
as the number of layers increases (there is a small amount of non-monotonicity in some settings due to
training instability); the sufficient depth to achieve high accuracy varies depending on the problem setting, as
discussed below.

Trends in sufficient depth. The minimum number of layers required to achieve 99%+ performance
reflects our beliefs on the difficulty of the task: a high-level trend is that the semigroups which don’t contain
groups (which only require memory lookups) are the easiest to learn, and among the groups, the larger
non-abelian groups require more layers to learn, with the non-solvable group S5 requiring the largest depth.18
Between the non-abelian groups, the difficulty of learning Q8 compared to D8 (which has the same cardinality)
agrees with our theoretical characterizations of the respective constant-depth shortcuts for these groups: D8
can be written as a semidirect product of smaller groups, while Q8 cannot, so our theoretical construction of
a constant-depth shortcut must embed Q8 in a larger structure (i.e. the wreath product).

Improving training stability. Throughout these experiments, we observe the following forms of training
instability: high variance in training curves (based on initialization and random seeds for the gradient-based
optimization algorithm), and negative progress (i.e. non-monotonic loss curves), even for training runs which
eventually converge successfully. This is evident in Figure 3(b),(c) and in the significant difference between
the maximum accuracies in Figure 8 and the median in Figure 9.
To stabilize training, we experiment with dropout and exponential moving average (EMA)19 . The effectiveness
17 This size is sufficient for evaluating the model performance:    for example, for C2 (i.e. parity), evaluating a model on 10
   evaluation sets of this size gives a standard deviation of 0.031% in the accuracy.
18 However, we stress that these experiments do not control for the fact that larger groups have richer supervision (for example,

   A5 has more informative labels than A4 ), possibly accounting for the counterintuitive result that the latter requires more
   layers, despite being a subgroup of the former.
19 We use the EMA implementation from https://github.com/fadel/pytorch_ema.




                                                              31
        1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8          9     10     11     12     13     14     15     16
Dyck 99.3     100    100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

Grid4 99.9    100    100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

Grid9 92.2    100    100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 C2    77.6   99.8   99.9   100    100    99.5   100    99.7       100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 C3    54.6   94.6   96.7   99.4   100    100    99.8   100        99.9   100    100    100    100    100    99.8   100

 C4    95.1   92.3   84.2   99.9   99.7   99.9   100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 C5    89.0   99.1   99.9   100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 C6    59.8   98.7   75.5   99.9   99.8   99.9   99.9   100        100    100    99.8   99.9   100    99.8   99.9   99.9

 C7    90.9   95.0   99.9   99.9   100    99.9   100    100        100    100    100    99.8   100    100    100    100

 C8    79.6   96.2   99.8   99.8   99.9   100    99.9   99.9       100    99.4   99.9   99.9   99.9   100    99.9   99.9

 C22   90.5   98.8   99.9   100    100    99.9   100    100        99.9   99.9   100    100    100    100    100    100

 C23   65.0   77.9   99.9   97.9   100    99.8   98.2   99.9       100    100    91.9   95.9   91.7   90.6   87.5   80.6

 D6    25.4   27.2   47.4   75.2   100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 D8    45.6   98.0   100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 Q8    31.6   49.2   59.6   60.4   73.5   99.3   100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 A4    25.0   35.4   49.1   59.3   62.6   82.3   90.9   98.0       98.0   99.1   99.8   100    99.7   100    100    100

 A5    12.5   23.1   32.5   46.7   71.2   98.8   100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 S4    11.3   17.6   22.0   27.1   37.7   44.8   50.8   72.5       91.3   97.1   97.9   98.7   99.9   100    99.8   99.9

 S5    7.9    11.8   14.6   19.7   26.0   28.4   32.8   51.8       86.3   94.8   90.2   97.2   99.3   99.1   99.9   99.9

Figure 8: A complete version of Figure 3, for various tasks (rows) and numbers of network layers (columns).
Reported performance is the maximum test accuracy over 20 runs.




                                                              32
        1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8          9     10     11     12     13     14     15     16
Dyck 98.8     100    100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

Grid4 99.8    100    100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

Grid9 91.4    100    100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 C2    56.4   83.0   79.9   80.9   89.1   85.2   84.8   84.9       88.8   94.5   98.3   86.4   90.4   88.7   94.6   99.3

 C3    40.3   69.1   78.2   85.0   84.0   84.9   87.9   96.2       99.4   89.2   82.5   99.3   87.4   98.0   89.6   92.0

 C4    56.8   63.8   56.2   64.2   69.5   71.5   75.9   73.7       85.8   68.0   77.1   84.1   64.9   71.1   64.3   99.3

 C5    75.6   62.7   99.0   99.5   99.8   99.9   99.8   99.5       99.8   99.8   99.7   99.8   99.8   99.9   99.9   99.7

 C6    45.8   49.0   53.0   59.6   75.5   77.0   95.6   91.2       83.4   59.6   98.4   72.9   89.7   94.5   99.8   87.5

 C7    51.0   76.2   99.7   99.7   99.6   99.6   99.4   99.7       99.7   99.6   99.6   99.6   99.7   99.6   99.8   99.7

 C8    60.5   58.8   99.0   98.5   99.6   99.7   99.4   99.5       99.6   98.5   99.5   99.8   99.8   99.6   99.3   99.7

 C22   62.6   73.1   78.4   73.4   74.9   79.8   84.1   82.4       77.0   70.6   69.0   71.9   70.6   76.9   68.3   59.3

 C23   50.0   61.4   60.6   60.7   72.4   63.2   63.8   66.4       69.8   59.0   63.4   54.6   59.5   53.0   44.7   48.4

 D6    24.8   26.8   40.8   57.2   81.3   91.6   100    99.6       100    100    93.0   96.2   100    97.7   99.6   99.3

 D8    38.1   63.6   99.7   100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100

 Q8    29.0   45.8   38.5   42.7   57.4   79.5   84.7   89.2       95.9   98.1   98.8   97.8   99.8   98.3   98.8   99.4

 A4    19.7   30.4   41.0   45.4   44.7   52.8   60.0   68.3       72.8   74.1   91.4   82.6   88.2   97.9   99.0   98.5

 A5    10.5   18.7   26.6   30.5   40.6   63.9   77.2   99.4       99.3   100    100    100    100    100    99.9   100

 S4    10.7   15.1   18.8   22.9   25.0   31.1   36.6   43.6       56.2   71.0   73.1   88.1   91.0   97.6   95.6   97.8

 S5    7.1    11.0   13.1   16.5   20.9   24.3   29.4   37.6       40.1   59.0   60.4   91.3   91.2   94.6   98.0   99.1

Figure 9: The median accuracy for various tasks (rows) and numbers of network layers (columns). Reported
performance is the median test accuracy over 20 runs.




                                                              33
of dropout varies across datasets; for example, we find using a dropout of 0.1 (the best among {0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3})
to be helpful for Dihedral and Quaternion, while such dropout hurts the training of Dyck and Gridworld.
We find EMA to be generally useful, and fix the decay parameter γ = 0.9 in the experiments since the
performance of the EMA model does not seem to be sensitive to the choice of γ ∈ {0.85, 0.9, 0.95}. Further,
increasing the patience of the learning rate scheduler can be helpful.

B.1.2    Visualizing and interpreting attention heads
Although we defer a fine-grained mechanistic interpretability study (“which group/semigroup factorizations
did these shallow Transformers discover, if any?”) to future work, we provide some preliminary visualizations
of attention heatmaps which strongly corroborate their theoretical counterparts. In particular, consider the
gridworld setup in Theorem 3. The theoretical construction consists of two steps: the first attention layer
calculates the prefix sum of the actions (i.e. the sum of {σ̃i }i∈[T ] ∈ {0, ±1}T ), and the second attention layer
identifies the last time the process is at a boundary state (i.e. 0 or S) where the process can be “reset” (i.e.
the model can ignore the history before the boundary state and only needs to calculate the sum of subsequent
actions).
We have seen in Figure 4 that the network indeed learns to 1) compute the prefix sum, as evidenced by
the uniform attention in the first layer, and 2) detect boundary states, as highlighted by large attention
scores in the last layer. Figure 10 provides more examples of attention patterns, which are taken from the
last layer of a 4-layer GPT-2 model on two randomly selected Grid9 sequences. We highlight the locations
where the process is at a boundary state (white strips for state 0 or gray strips for state S = 8), which align
well with the highly activated positions of the attention heads, showing that the model learns to locate the
closest boundary states. Moreover, when processing tokens appearing later in the sequence than these highly
activated positions, no attention weight is put on tokens before these positions. This suggests that these
highly activated locations reset the state so that the model does not need to look further back past them.

B.2     Section 5: Failures of shortcuts in more challenging settings
Our theoretical and main empirical findings have shown that not only do shallow non-recurrent networks
subsume deeper finite-state recurrent models in theory, these shallow solutions can also be found empirically
via standard gradient-based training. However, experiments in Section 4 and Appendix B are in an idealized
setting, with full state supervision during training and in-distribution evaluation at test time. This section
studies more challenging settings where these assumptions are relaxed. We consider training under indirect
(Section B.2.1) or incomplete (Section B.2.2) state supervision, and evaluation on sequences that is out-of-
distribution (Section B.2.3) or of longer lengths (Section B.2.4).

B.2.1    Challenges from indirect supervision
One type of limited supervision is that the observations may not provide full information of the underlying
state. To model this, we consider the case where instead of observing the state q directly, we get a function of
the state, denoted ϕ(q), where ϕ : Q → Q̃ is non-injective (i.e. |Q̃| < |Q|). In each of the experiments involving
partially-observable semiautomata, we specify the underlying semiautomaton, as well as the observation
function ϕ.
   • Dyck language with stack top observations: For Dyckn,k , the state Q is the state of the stack which
           Pn
     takes i=0 k i values. We take ϕ to be the function that takes in a stack and returns the element at the
     top of the stack, which is either one of the k open brackets if the stack if non-empty, or a special token
     ⊥ indicating an empty stack, i.e. Q̃ := {1, 2, · · · , k, ⊥}. We consider k = 8 (as opposed to k = 2 in
     Section 4) to make the prediction task more challenging.
   • Gridworld with boundary observations: We consider the case where the underlying semiautomaton is
     Grid9 with Q = {0, 1, · · · , 8}. The observation function ϕ : Q → {0, 1} outputs whether the current
     state is of two boundary states, i.e. at state 0 or state S = 8.
   • Permutations with single-element observations: We take the permutation group S5 with Q is the set of
     5! operations. The observation function ϕ : Q → {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} returns the first value of the permutation.


                                                        34
                                                     (a)




                                                     (b)

Figure 10: Visualization of the entire set of 8 attention heads on two randomly selected length-128 sequences
for models trained on Grid9 . The lower triangles visualize the attention patterns, while the upper triangles
are ignored by the attention head because of the causal mask. We use the upper triangles to visualize the
positions of state 0 and state S = 8 in the output: white strips mark the position of state 0 and gray strips
mark state S = 8. Example heads that clearly detect state 0 and S are highlighted with blue and red frames,
respectively. Note that in many cases, the white/gray strips align with the locations of high attention scores
(the bright yellow patterns). This suggests that the model indeed learns to identify the boundary states and
that the construction in Theorem 3 agrees with solutions found in practice.




                                                     35
          Task        Dyck4,8      Grid9        S5            C4       D8       (abab)? , (1)   (abab)? , (2)
    Observation      stack top    1boundary   π1:t (1)    10 mod 4   location      accept          accept
        Accuracy       100.0        100.0      99.6           99.9    100.0        100.0           100.0

Figure 11: Accuracies with indirect supervision, extending results in Figure 5(a). The numbers are the
maximum over 25 runs. As a reference, LSTM gets 100% on all tasks.


     For example, ϕ((2, 1, 4, 3, 5) = 2. We use a set of 5 generators for the experiments.
   • Cyclic group with “0 mod 4” observations: We take C4 as the underlying group with Q = {0, 1, 2, 3}.
     The observation function computes whether the current state is state 0, i.e. ϕ(q) = 1[q = 0].
   • Dihedral group with rotation component only: Recall that D2n = Cn o C2 . We take n = 4 with
     Q = {0, 1, 2, 3} × {0, 1}, and let the observation function ψ output only the the first component (i.e.
     Q̃ = {0, 1, 2, 3}).
   • (abab)∗ : We consider one semiautomaton which is not featured in Section 4: the one which recognizes
     the regular expression (abab)∗ , which is also studied in Bhattamishra et al. (2020). The underlying
     semiautomaton has 5 states: 4 states are in a cyclic fashion when seeing repeated patterns of abab,
     and a fifth absorbing “failure” state is entered if any other pattern is seen. For example, the input
     sequence abababaaabab corresponds to states 012301244444, where the 5th “a” leads to the absorbing
     state. The observation function ϕ computes whether the current state is the “accepting” state (i.e. state
     3), with Q̃ = {0, 1}. For example, the output of ϕ for the input sequence ababababa is 000100010, and
     the output for the input sequence ababbabab is 000111111, i.e. the sequence enters the absorbing state
     at position 5 and never recovers.
     We consider two distributions on the input sequences: (1) the input is always a sequence of the form
     abababa · · · (i.e. the process is never in the absorbing state), which is the setup in Bhattamishra et al.
     (2020); and (2) the input is of the form abababa · · · with probability 0.5, and is some randomly drawn
     string of a, b otherwise. Note that case (1) can be solved purely based on the positional encoding, since
     the label is 1 when the position is a multiple of 4 and 0 otherwise, while case (2) is more difficult since
     the model needs to take into account the input tokens.

Results. We train GPT-2-like models on sequences of length 40. We use 16 layers for S5 and 8 layers
for other tasks, with embedding dimension d = 512 and H = 8 attention heads. As shown in Figure 11,
the model is able to achieve near-perfect in-distribution accuracies for all tasks. An interesting side finding
is that the choice of positional encoding turns out to be important for both cases of (abab)∗ : learning is
challenging for linear encoding (i.e. pi ∝ i) but is easy when using sinusoidal positional encoding, which is
likely because the sinusoidal encoding naturally matches the periodicity in (abab)∗ . In all other experiments,
we use sinusoidal positional encodings unless otherwise noted.

B.2.2    Challenges from incomplete supervision
Another challenge of limited supervision is that the observation sequence may be incomplete, that is, we may
not be able to get supervision on the states at every time step. We consider the task of learning length 100
sequences, where the state at each position is revealed with some probability preveal ∈ (0, 1].

Results. Figure 12 shows the accuracy against preveal , for S5 and C2 (i.e. parity). Transformer training
pipeline is worse than LSTM at tolerating incomplete supervision: while Transformer is able to maintain the
performance across preveal for C2 , the performance degrades significantly at lower preveal for S5 . We leave
improving the robustness to sparse supervision to future work.




                                                         36
Figure 12: Learning from incomplete state sequences, extending results from Figure 5(b): accuracy vs.
position-wise probability of a hidden token (i.e. preveal ), for GPT and LSTM. While LSTM is able to maintain
a perfect accuracy across different values of preveal , GPT’s performance may degrade as labels get sparser.
The mean and standard deviation are taken over 25 runs.




Figure 13: OOD generalization performance on C2 : (Left) Accuracy on sequences of the same length as
training, with varying P r[σ = 1] = 0.5. GPT fails at OOD generalization, whereas recurrent solutions
implemented by LSTM and Scratchpad with recency bias is robust to different distributions. (Right) Accuracy
on sequences of the same length as training, with a varying number of 1s in each sequence. GPT has worse
performance on counts less frequently seen during training. The lines show the mean accuracy (with shadows
showing standard error) over 25 replicates.


B.2.3   Out-of-distribution generalization
The previous subsections show positive results on learning shallow non-recurrent shortcuts with limited
supervision during training, either in the form of indirect observations or incomplete observation sequences.
In this section, we study challenges at test time, and evaluate Transformers on their out-of-distribution
generalization performance. For this and the next subsection, the models are trained in the standard way with
full state supervision. The training sequences are of length 40, where each position has an equal probability
of being 0 or 1, i.e. Pr[σ = 1] = 0.5. At test time, the sequences of the same length as training, but the
Bernoulli parameter Pr[σ = 1] varies in the range {0.05, 0.1, 0.15, . . . , 0.9, 0.95}.

Negative results for vanilla Transformers. Figure 13 (left) shows the accuracy as Pr[σ = 1] varies. The
performance of the Transformer degrades sharply as the test distribution changes away from training, failing
at out-of-distribution generalization. Given the theoretical construction of modular counters (Lemma 6), our
hypothesis is that Transformer may be learning a shortcut solution that computes the parity by counting
the number of 1s, and that counts less frequently seen during training will cause the model to fail. The
experimental results agree with the hypothesis: as Pr[σ = 1] deviates from 0.5, it is less likely for the value
of the count (which concentrates around T × Pr[σ = 1]) to be seen during training, hence the performance
degrades. In contrast, an LSTM recurrent network maintains perfect accuracy when evaluated on all values
of Pr[σ = 1].
We further test this hypothesis by checking how the accuracy changes as we vary the count (i.e. the number
of 1s) in the input sequence. As shown in Figure 13 (right), Transformer’s performance degrades as the count


                                                      37
moves away from the expected number during training, agreeing with the hypothesis. It might appear strange
that GPT fails at a lower count more than a higher count. However, this may be because the shortcut learns
a correlation between the count and the position: during training, a lower count is more likely to appear
early in an input sequence, as opposed to the testing scenario where a lower count is equally likely to appear
at a later part of an sequence. This is further supported by the observation that training the model with
randomly shifted positions significantly improves the performance at lower counts.

Guiding the Transformer to learn the recurrent solution. We investigate one established mitigation
for the out-of-distribution brittleness of non-recurrent Transformers: scratchpad training and inference.
Given a sequence of inputs (σ1 , . . . , σT ) and states (q1 , . . . , qT ), in the standard (non-recurrent) sequence-to-
sequence learning pipeline, the network receives σ1:T as input, and outputs the sequence of predictions for
qt . In scratchpad training (Nye et al., 2021, Wei et al., 2022), we instead feed the network an interleaved
sequence of inputs and states (σ1 , q1 , σ2 , q2 , σ3 , q3 , . . . , qT −1 , σT ) (with an appropriately expanded token
vocabulary), and define the network’s state predictions to be those at the appropriately aligned positions:
(q̂1 , ⊥, q̂2 , ⊥, . . . , ⊥, q̂T ) (where ⊥ denotes a position where the prediction is ignored by the loss function).
During inference, we iteratively fill in the state predictions. This removes the need for the network to learn
long-range dependencies in a single non-recurrent pass, by splitting it into T sequential state prediction
problems which can depend on previous predicted state q̂t−1 ; one can think of this as a way to guide a shallow
Transformer to learn the recurrent solution (i.e. explicit depth-Θ(T ) iteration of the state transition function),
rather than a shortcut.
We note that introducing the scratchpad itself is not sufficient to remove the parallel solution, since the
model can simply ignore the scratchpad positions and find the same parallel shortcut as before. The good
news is that we can couple scratchpad with an explicit recency bias in the attention mechanism (Press et al.,
2022) which biases the model towards putting more attention weights on closer input. Intuitively, if the
model is only allowed to put attention on the current input token and the current scratchpad (which is
simply the current state), then the model is forced to be recurrent; recency bias can be considered as a soft
relaxation of the same idea. Combining scratchpad and recency bias, we are able to train a Transformer
to learn the recurrent solution, which is resilient to distribution shift; see Figure 13 (left). Notice that this
mitigation completely foregoes the computational advantage of a shallow shortcut; we leave it to future work
to obtain shortcuts which are resilient to distribution shift. Towards this, the constructions used in the proof
of Theorem 1 may be helpful. Finally as a side note, even though the state transitions are Markov, the
dependency in the input sequence can still be long range, so we do not expect recency bias to help without
scratchpad, since in this case the output can depend uniformly on each input positions (e.g. consider parity).

B.2.4    Length generalization
Settings for length generalization. Our final setup is length generalization, where the model is evaluated
on sequences of lengths unseen during training. Promoting this difficult desideratum of length generalization
is an intricate problem in its own right; see Anil et al. (2022), Yao et al. (2021) for more experiments similar to
ours and more discussions on length generalization in A.5. In the following, we check the length generalization
performance on Dyck4,2 and C2 (with P r[σ = 1] = 0.5), where the model is trained on sequences of length 40
and tested on sequences of length {8, 16, 24, · · · , 120, 128}.

Results. Figure 14 shows the performance on sequences of various lengths. In contrast to LSTM’s perfect
performance on all scenarios, Transformer’s accuracy drops sharply as we move to lengths unseen during
training. This is not purely due to unseen values of the positional encoding: randomly shifting the positions
during training can cover all the positions seen during testing, which helps improve the length generalization
performance but cannot make it perfect; we see similar results for removing positional encodings altogether.
However, similar to the OOD setup in the previous subsection, we empirically show that the above flaws
are circumventable. Using a combination of scratchpad (a.k.a. “chain-of-thought”) (Nye et al., 2021, Wei
et al., 2022) and recency bias (Press et al., 2022), we demonstrate that Transformers can be guided towards
learning recurrent (depth-T ) solutions, which generalize out-of-distribution and to longer sequence lengths
(Figure 14, yellow curves). The results also confirm that the inclusion of recency bias is necessary: without it,
scratchpad training shows no improvement on length generalization.


                                                           38
Figure 14: Length generalization on Dyck and C2 (Figure 6(b), reproduced here for convenience): Transformer
fails at length generalization, but adding Scratchpad (Nye et al., 2021) and recency bias (Press et al., 2022)
serves as a remedy. The lines show the mean accuracy (with shadows showing standard error) over 25 (±1)
replicates.




Figure 15: Choice of the positional encoding: while having similar or even superior in-distribution performance
(on sequences of length T = 40), sinusoidal positional encoding may suffer a larger generalization gap than
linear positional encoding when testing on length 2T . The lines show the mean accuracy over 25 replicates.


Impact of positional encoding. Figure 14 also shows some interesting findings related to positional
encoding, which is believed to be a key component for Transformers and a topic with active research (Chu
et al., 2021, Ke et al., 2020). While this work does not aim to improve positional encoding, some of our
results may be of interest for future research.
Sinusoidal vs linear encoding: We find that the conventional sinusoidal encoding (which is the default for
results in this paper) seems to generalize worse to unseen length than linear encoding (where pi ∝ i), despite
having comparable or better in-distribution performance. Figure 15 shows examples on Grid9 and partially
observed (abab)∗ , where we compare the accuracy on freshly drawn samples of the same length as the training
sequences (i.e. in-distribution), or of twice the training length. For Grid9 , both positional encodings achieve
comparable accuracy, however the sinusoidal encoding performs significantly worse when tested on sequences
of doubled length. For partially observed (abab)∗ where the label is whether the current string is a multiple of
abab, the sinusoidal encoding has a clear advantage over the linear encoding on in-distribution performance.
However, when tested on sequences of lengths twice as those during training, the performance gap between
the two positional encodings shrinks significantly.
Training with shifted positions: In general, unseen positions appear to be a major contributor to Transformer’s
failure of length generalization. This is evidenced by the comparison between Transformer trained with


                                                      39
absolute positional encoding, and Transformers trained with random shifts added to the positional encoding:
for each batch, we sample a random positive integer in [0,400] and add it to the position indices before
calculating the positional encoding; this random integer is the same for each batch and varies across batches.
Figure 14 shows that adding such random shifts gives a significant boost to Transformer’s length generalization
performance, for both Dyck and C2 . This suggests that a main challenge to length generalization is the
distribution shifts due to positions unseen during training, and finding better positional encoding could be a
potential remedy for poor length generalization.
As a side note, we also find that removing positional encoding altogether helps improve generalization for
both parity and Dyck. For the former, removing positional encodings makes sense since parity is a symmetric
function where the ordering of the arguments does not matter, 20 though the positive result for Dyck is less
clearly understood. Note that removing positional encoding does not mean having no position information,
since the use of the causal mask implicitly encodes the position, which is also noted in Bhattamishra et al.
(2020) and concurrent work by Haviv et al. (2022). Understanding this phenomenon is tangential to the
current work and is left to future work.

B.3      Additional details
Hyperparameters. For GPT-2 models, we fix the embedding dimension and MLP width to 512 and the
number of heads to 8 in all experiments in Section 4, and vary the number of layers from 1 to 16. For LSTM,
we fix the embedding dimension to 64, the hidden dimension to 128, and the number of layers to 1. We use
the AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2017), with learning rate in {3e-5, 1e-4, 3e-4} for GPT-2 or
{1e-3, 3e-3} for LSTM, weight decay 1e-4 for GPT-2 or 1e-9 for LSTM, and batch size 16 for GPT-2 or 64 for
LSTM. As detailed in Section B.1.1, the models are trained in an online fashion with freshly drawn samples
in each batch. The number of freshly drawn samples ranges from 600k to 5000k for different datasets, which
is much fewer than the number of possible strings of length 100.

Implementation details. Our experiments are implemented with PyTorch (Paszke et al., 2019). The
Transformers architectures are taken from the HuggingFace Transformers library (Wolf et al., 2019), using the
GPT-2 configuration as a base. The LSTM architecture is the default one provided by the PyTorch library.

Computational resources. The experiments were performed on an internal cluster with NVIDIA Tesla
P40, P100, V100, and A100 GPUs. For the experiments in Section 4, each training run took up to 10 hours
on a single GPU, for a total of ≈ 104 GPU hours. The remaining experiments in Section 5 amount to less
than 1% of this expenditure.


C      Proofs
C.1      Useful definitions and lemmas
Formal definitions of simulation. We first recall the notions of simulation introduced in Section 2:
    • A function can simulate an automaton for particular choices of T, q0 . For a semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ),
      a function f : ΣT → QT simulates AT,q0 if f (σ1:T ) = AT,q0 (σ1:T ) for all input sequences σ1:T . Here,
      the right-hand side denotes the sequence of states q1:T induced by the input sequence σ1:T under the
      transitions δ starting from state q0 .
    • A function class can simulate multiple functions associated with a semiautomaton. For a semiautomaton
      A = (Q, Σ, δ) and a positive integer T , a function class F (a set of functions f : ΣT → QT ) simulates
      A at length T if, for every q0 ∈ Q, there is function fq0 ∈ F which simulates AT,q0 .
20 Empirically, we are able to achieve non-trivial accuracy (even when evaluated at the sequence level) without positional encoding,

  whereas Bhattamishra et al. (2020) reports 0 accuracy. The discrepancy may be due to different model size: Bhattamishra
  et al. considers Transformers with up to 4 layers, 4 heads and dimension up to 32, whereas for the parity experiments we
  consider Transformers with 8 layers, 8 heads, and dimension 512.




                                                                40
Our proofs rely on composing “gadgets” which simulate various substructures of the transformation semigroup
T (A). Thus, it will be useful to establish a third notion of simulation, which works for functions in the
embedding space Rd rather than the symbol spaces Q, Σ. For clarity, we give this notion a different name
(continuous simulation):
   • For a semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ), a function f : Rd → Rd continuously simulates AT,q0 if there exist
     functions E : Σ → Rd , W : imf → Q such that W ◦ f ◦ E simulates AT,q0 .
When W is a linear threshold function z 7→ arg maxq [W z]q , this corresponds to a standard classification head.
However, our constructions may leverage other encodings of discrete objects.

Function approximation. We provide some simple function approximation results below.
Lemma 1 (1D discrete function interpolation with an MLP). Let X be a finite subset of R, such that
|x| ≤ Bx for all x ∈ X , and |x − x0 | ≥ ∆ for all x 6= x0 ∈ X . Let f : X → Rd be such that kf (x)k∞ ≤ By for
all x ∈ X . Then, there is a 2-layer ReLU network for which

                                fmlp (x + ξ; θmlp ) = f (x)        ∀x ∈ X ,   |ξ| ≤ ∆/4.

The inner dimension is d0 = 4|X |, and the weights satisfy
                                       4                4Bx
                            kW1 k∞ ≤     ,   kb1 k∞ ≤       + 2,      kW2 k∞ ≤ By ,    b2 = 0.
                                       ∆                 ∆

Proof. For each x0 ∈ X , we construct an indicator ψx0 (x) for x0 , out of 4 ReLU units. Letting ∆0 := ∆/4,
the construction is
                                        x − (x0 − 2∆0 )         x − (x0 − ∆0 )
                                                                            
                           ψx0 (x) :=                       −
                                              ∆0          +           ∆0         +
                                       x − (x0 + ∆0 )         x − (x0 + 2∆0 )
                                                                           
                                   −                      +                       .
                                             ∆0         +           ∆0          +


The second layer simply sums these indicators, weighted by each f (x0 ).

Lemma 2 (General discrete function interpolation with an MLP). Let X be a finite subset of Rdin , such
that kxk∞ ≤ Bx for all x ∈ X , and kx − x0 k∞ ≥ ∆ for all x 6= x0 ∈ X . Let f : X → Rdout be such that
kf (x)k∞ ≤ By for all x ∈ X . Then, there is a 3-layer ReLU network for which

                                fmlp (x + ξ; θmlp ) = f (x)        ∀x ∈ X ,   |ξ| ≤ ∆/4.

Letting Xi denote the set of unique values in coordinate i, the inner MLP dimensions are as follows:
                                                X
                                        d1 = 4       |Xi |, d2 = |X |.
                                                   i∈[din ]

The weights satisfy
                      4                4Bx
        kW1 k∞ ≤        ,   kb1 k∞ ≤       + 2,   kW2 k∞ ≤ 1,        kb2 k∞ ≤ din ,   kW3 k∞ ≤ By ,   b3 = 0.
                      ∆                 ∆
Proof. The first layer uses the same construction as that in Lemma 1, creating indicators for each x ∈ Xi for
each i. For each x ∈ X, the second layer has an activation which sums the indicators from each xi , with bias
−din (thus creating indicators for each x). The third layer outputs f (x) for each indicator.

When we apply Lemmas 1 and 2 in recursive constructions, and Bx /∆ ≥ 1, we will opt to use the bound
kb1 k∞ ≤ 6Bx /∆, to reduce the clutter of propagating the 2 term without resorting to asymptotic notation.
We also introduce a simpler version of Lemma 1 for the special case of the threshold function f (x) := 1[x > 0]:


                                                              41
Lemma 3 (Threshold with an MLP). Let X be a subset of R, and |x| ≥ ∆ for all x ∈ X . Then, there is a
2-layer ReLU network for which

                              fmlp (x + ξ; θmlp ) = 1[x > 0]            ∀x ∈ X ,          |ξ| ≤ ∆/4.

The inner dimension is d0 = 2, and the weights satisfy
                                             1
                              kW1 k∞ ≤         ,    kb1 k∞ ≤ 1/2,       kW2 k∞ ≤ 1,             b2 = 0.
                                             ∆
Proof. We construct the threshold using 2 ReLU units. The construction is
                                                             
                                             x+∆          x−∆
                                   ψ(x) :=            −             .
                                              2∆    +      2∆     +




Selection via soft attention. We record some useful lemmas pertaining to approximating hard coordinate
selection with soft attention. The following is a simplified version of Lemma B.7 from (Edelman et al., 2022)
(which generalizes this to multi-index selection):
Lemma 4 (Softmax approximates hard max). Let z ∈ RT . Let softmax(z) : RT → RT denote the T -
dimensional softmax function:
                                                     ezt
                                [softmax(z)]t := P           z t0
                                                                  .
                                                  t0 ∈[T ] e

Let t∗ := arg maxt zt . Suppose that for all t0 6= t∗ , zt0 ≤ zt∗ − γ. Then,

                                             ksoftmax(z) − et∗ k1 ≤ 2T · e−γ .

Proof. Without loss of generality, max z = γ (since the softmax function is invariant under shifting all inputs
by the same value), so that all other coordinates are non-positive. Also, assume T ≥ 2 (the T = 1 case is
trivial). We have

                                             eγ                    eγ           T −1     T −1
                   [softmax(z)]t∗ =          P             ≥              =1− γ      ≥1−      ,
                                      eγ +     t6=t∗ e
                                                         t     eγ + T − 1    e +T −1      eγ

and for t0 6= t,
                                                                        0
                                                                       et                 1
                                        [softmax(z)]t0 =               P             ≤      .
                                                                eγ +    t6=t∗   et       eγ
Thus, the 1-norm of the difference is bounded by
                                                  T −1             1  2T
                                                     γ
                                                       + (T − 1) · γ < γ ,
                                                   e              e    e
as claimed.

Positional embeddings. We note the following elementary fact about 2-dimensional circular embeddings.
Proposition 5 (Circular embeddings). Consider p1 , . . . , pT , the T equally-spaced points on the 2-dimensional
circle:                                                                  
                                              2πt                       2πt
                              [pt ]1 := cos         , [pt ]2 := sin           .
                                               T                         T
Then, for any t 6= t0 ,
                                                                   2π 2    19.7
                                             |hpt , pt0 i| ≤ 1 −        <1− 2 .
                                                                   T2       T



                                                                 42
C.2     Proof of Theorem 1: Logarithmic-depth shortcuts via parallel prefix sum
In this section, we give the full statement and proof of the universal existence of logarithmic-depth shortcuts.
Theorem 1 (Simulation is generically parallelizable). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be a semiautomaton, q0 ∈ Q, and
T ≥ 1. Then, there is a depth-dlog2 T e Transformer which continuously simulates AT,q0p, with embedding
dimension 2|Q| + 2, MLP width |Q|2 + |Q|, and ∞-weight norms at most max{4|Q| + 2, 10T log |Q| + log T }.
It has H = 2 heads with embedding dimension |Q| implying 2|Q| + 2 attention width, and a 3-layer MLP.

Proof. The basic idea is that all prefix compositions δ(·, σt ) ◦ . . . ◦ δ(·, σ1 ) can be evaluated in logarithmic
depth using a binary tree whose leaves are the per-input transition functions δ(·, σ) : Q → Q. The attention
heads select the pairs of functions that need to be composed, while the feedforward networks implement
function composition. The network will manipulate functions in terms of their transition maps: for example,
the encoding of f := (1 7→ 1, 2 7→ 1, 3 7→ 2) is
                                              X
                                                 f (q) · eq = [1 1 2].
                                           q∈{1,2,3}


Small nuances. We will produce a construction for the case where T is a power of 2; general T can be
handled via padding. To simplify the construction, we also introduce T padding positions −(T − 1), . . . , 0 at
the beginning; while this greatly simplifies the positional selection construction, this padding construction
could be replaced with a slightly more complicated MLP. Also, in this construction, we do not need to use
residual connections; the parallel prefix sum algorithm we use can be executed “in place”, saving a logarithmic
factor in the width. We do assume access to the 2 positional embeddings at each layer; in the absence of
residual connections, the identity function restricted to these 2 dimensions can be implemented by the MLP
and attention heads.
Let L = log2 T be the depth of the binary tree. We choose d := 2|Q| + 2. Instead of indexing the dimensions
by [d], we give them names:
   • Left function encoding dimensions (q, L) for each q ∈ Q.
   • Right function encoding dimensions (q, R) for each q ∈ Q.
   • Positional encoding dimensions P1 , P2 .

                                                                               P enumeration of the state space).
Without loss of generality, let Q = [|Q|] = {1, . . . , Q} (selecting an arbitrary
Also, assume |Q| ≥ 2 (if not, add a dummy state). We choose E(σt ) := q∈Q δ(q, σt ) · e(q,R) , mapping each
input symbol to the “transitionP  map” of its transitions. At the padding positions −(T − 1), . . . , 0, we will
encode the “go to q0 ” function: q∈Q q0 · e(q,R) .

Function composition gadget. We first introduce the construction for function composition with a
3-layer ReLU MLP, which will be used by all layers. It gives an exponential improvement over the generic
universal function approximation gadget from Lemma 2.

Lemma 5. There exists a 3-layer ReLU MLP φmlp : Rd → Rd , with fixed parameters W1 , b1 , W2 , b2 , W3
whose dimensions and weights only depend on Q, such that for all f, g : Q → Q, φmlp outputs the transition
map of f ◦ g given the concatenated transition maps of f and g. That is, for all |Q|2|Q| choices of f, g:
                                                              
                           X                  X                    X
                       φ     g(q) · e(q,L) +   f (q) · e(q,R)  =   (f ◦ g)(q) · e(q,R) .
                            q∈Q                q∈Q                  q∈Q


The intermediate dimensions are d1 = |Q|2 + |Q| and d2 = |Q|2 , and weight norms are bounded by 4|Q| + 2.




                                                        43
Proof. The first layer uses Lemma 1 to create |Q|2 indicators: one to recognize each value along the e(q,L)
                                                                                    2       2          2
direction. Let us index these by q, q 0 ∈ Q. Then, this gives us W1 ∈ Rd×4|Q| , b1 ∈ R4|Q| , W20 ∈ R|Q| such
that
                         [((z → W20 z) ◦ σ ◦ (z 7→ W1 z + b1 ))(z)]q,q0 = 1[e>          0
                                                                             (q,L) z = q ].

We also add Q more weights which let the inputs pass through along the e(q,R) directions (add Q more rows
 (q,R) to W1 , W2 , calling these indices •q for all q ∈ Q; set biases to 0), for a total of 4|Q| + |Q| hidden units
e>              0                                                                                2

and |Q|2 + |Q| output dimensions of W20 .
The second layer implements multiplication between the indicators and function values. The outputs are
                                                  2     2                     2
again indexed by q, q 0 ∈ Q. We define W200 ∈ R|Q| ×(|Q| +|Q|) and b002 ∈ R|Q| to be such that

           [W200 ](q,q0 ),(q̄,q̄0 ) := |Q| · 1[(q, q 0 ) = (q̄, q̄ 0 )],   [W200 ](q,q0 ),•q̄ := 1[q 0 = q̄],    [b002 ](q,q0 ) = −|Q|,
                                                                                                 0      0
                                                                                           ∀q, q , q̄, q̄ ∈ Q.

Overall, so far we have

                  [(σ ◦ (z 7→ W200 W20 z + b002 ) ◦ σ ◦ (z 7→ W1 z + b1 ))(z)]q,q0 = g(q 0 ) · 1[e>          0
                                                                                                  (q,L) z = q ].

                                      2
The third layer W3 ∈ Rd×|Q| simply converts these activations back into an transition map:
                                               X
                                        W3 =        e(q,R) e>
                                                            q,q 0 .
                                                                      q 0 ∈Q

Finally, we note the weight norms:

          kW1 k∞ ≤ 4|Q|,            kb1 k∞ ≤ 4|Q| + 2,              kW200 W20 k∞ ≤ 4|Q|,         kb002 k∞ = |Q|,       kW3 k∞ = 1.



Recursive parallel scan. The rest of the construction uses a standard parallel algorithm for computing
all prefix function compositions: at layer l ∈ [L], compose the function at position t with the function at
position t − 2l−1 . This is a standard algorithm for computing all prefix compositions of associative binary
operations with a logarithmic-depth circuit (Hillis and Steele Jr., 1986). We choose the position embeddings
to enable implementing these “look-backs” with rotation matrices. For each t ∈ {−T + 1, . . . , 0, 1, . . . , T }, we
use the circle embeddings                                           
                                                 πt                    πt
                                   Pt,P1 := cos      , Pt,P2 := sin         .
                                                 T                     T

In detail, for each 1 ≤ l ≤ L:
                       l−1
   • Let θ := − π2T , γ := 100T 2 (log |Q| + log T ).
   • Let H := 2, k := |Q|. Recall that |Q| ≥ 2. We will index the heads by superscripts [L], [R].
             [L]      [R]    [R]    √
   • Select WQ = WQ = WK := γ · (eP1 e>                >
                                              1 + eP2 e2 ).

                 [L]      √
   • Select WK :=                       1 + eP2 e2 )ρθ , where ρθ is the rotation matrix
                              γ · (eP1 e>        >

                                                                            
                                                            cos(θ) sin(θ)
                                                           − sin(θ) cos(θ)

      in the e1 , e2 basis.
             [L]   [R]
   • Select WV = WV := q∈Q e(q,L) e>  q .
                       P

             [L]                  [R]
                         (q,L) , WC =
   • Select WC = q∈Q eq e>                q∈Q eq e(q,R) .
                                                  >
                 P                      P



                                                                           44
At layer l, let α[L] , α[R] ∈ R2T denote the attention mixture weights of the two heads. With this choice of γ,
Lemma 4 and Proposition 5, for each t ∈ [T ], we are guaranteed that α[R] − et 1 and α[L] − et−2l−1 1 are
both at most |Q|·T
                 0.1
                       . Thus, by Hölder’s inequality (noting that this mixture is over T vectors of ∞-norm at
most |Q|), this attention layer’s output is 0.1-close in the ∞-norm to the concatenated transition maps of the
functions at positions t and t − 2l−1 , allowing us to invoke the perturbation-robust function approximation
guarantee of Lemma 1 with ∆ = 1. For the MLP, we use the function composition gadget.
Thus, at the final layer, the (q, R) dimensions at position t contains the transition map of the prefix composition

                                        δ(·, σt ) ◦ . . . ◦ δ(·, σ1 ) ◦ (q 7→ q0 ).

                                    (q,R) z for an arbitrary q to read out the sequence of states as scalar outputs
It suffices to choose W to be z 7→ e>
in [|Q|]. To output a one-hot encoding, an additional MLP (appended to the end of the final layer) would be
required.

C.3     Proof of Theorem 2: Constant-depth shortcuts via Krohn-Rhodes decom-
        position
We begin with the full statement of the theorem:
Theorem 2 (Transformer Krohn-Rhodes). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be a solvable semiautomaton (see Definition 6),
q0 ∈ Q, and T ≥ 1. Then, there is a depth-O(|Q|2 log |Q|) Transformer which continuously simulates
                                                                  |Q|
AT,q0 , with embedding dimension O(2|Q| |T (A)|), MLP width |Q|O(2 ) + O(2|Q| |Q| |T (A)| T ), attention width
        |Q|
O(|Q|2 |T (A)|) heads, and weight norms are bounded by 6|Q| T log T + 6 max{|Q|, |Σ|}.
We will begin by presenting self-contained constructions for the two atoms in the Krohn-Rhodes decomposition:
a modular counter and a memory unit. In Appendix C.3.2, we will introduce necessary background from
Krohn-Rhodes theory (including the definition of a solvable semiautomaton). In Appendix C.3.3 and C.3.4,
we will complete the proof of Theorem 2.

C.3.1    Base cases: modular counting and memory
Base case 1: modular addition. We will start with a construction of a tiny network which lets us
simulate any semiautomaton whose transformation semigroup is a cyclic group. Later on, we will use copies
of this unit to handle all solvable groups. The construction simply uses attention to perform a flat prefix
sum, and an MLP to compute the modular sum.
Definition 2 (Modular counter semiautomaton). For any positive integer n, define the mod-n modular
counter semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ):
                                      Q := {0, . . . , n − 1},
                                                Σ := {0, . . . , n − 1},
                                  δ(q, σ) := (q + σ) mod n,           ∀q ∈ Q, σ ∈ Σ.

Lemma 6 (Simulating a modular counter). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be the mod-n modular counter semiautomaton.
Let q0 ∈ Q, and T ≥ 1. Then, there is a depth-1 Transformer which continuously simulates AT,q0 , with
embedding dimension 3, width 4nT , and ∞-weight norms at most 4nT + 2. It has H = 1 head with embedding
dimension k = 1, and a 2-layer ReLU MLP.

Proof. The intuition is simply that the lower triangular matrix causal mask can implement simulation in this
cyclic group by performing unweighted prefix sums. The only subtlety is that selecting   WQ = WK = 0 does
not quite give us prefix sums: the attention mixture weights at position t are 1t t0 ∈[t] et0 , while we would
                                                                                  P

like the normalizing factor to be uniform across positions (1/T rather than 1/t). It is possible to undo this
normalization using the MLP; however, a particulaly simple solution is to use an additional padding input ⊥
and 1-dimensional position embeddings to “absorb” a fraction of the attention proportional to 1 − t/T .
We proceed to formalize this construction, beginning with the input embedding and attention block:


                                                           45
    • Select d := 3, k := 1, H := 1. Intuitively, the 3 dimensions implement {input/output, padding, position}
      “channels”.
    • Select input symbol embeddings E(σ) := σ · e1 ∈ Rd for each σ ∈ Σ.
    • Include an extra position ⊥, with embedding E(⊥) := e2 and position encoding P⊥,: := 0. Think of
      this as padding at position 0; it is not masked out by the causal attention mask at any position t ≥ 1.
    • For t ∈ [T ], select Pt,: := γt e3 , where γt := log(2T − t) is such that eγt1+t = 2T
                                                                                          1
                                                                                            .
    • Select WQ := e3 , WK := e2 , WV := e1 , WC> := e1 .
    • We do not need residual connections.
In the output of this attention module, for any input sequence σ1:T , the 1st channel of the output at position
t is then
                                                     1 X
                                               s :=         σt .
                                                    2T
                                                                t∈[T ]

where zt ∈ {0, . . . , n − 1} is such that δ(·, σt ) = g . The MLP simply needs to memorize the function
                                                         zt


                                                s · e1 7→ (T s mod n) · e1 .

We invoke Lemma 1, with ∆ = 2T    1
                                    , Bx = n−1
                                             2 < n2 , By = n. The number of possible values of S (the
cardinality of X in Lemma 1) is at most nT .

Base case 2: memory lookups. It turns out that to simulate semigroups instead of groups, the only
additional ingredient is a memory unit, a semiautomaton for which there are “read” and “write” operations.
The minimal example of this is a flip-flop (Example 2), a semiautomaton which can sequentially remember
and retrieve a single bit ∈ {0, 1}, and whose transformation semigroup is the flip-flop monoid. It will be
convenient to generalize this object to Q states:
Definition 3 (Memory semiautomaton). For a given state set Q, define the memory semiautomaton
A = (Q, Σ, δ):
                                       Σ = Q ∪ {⊥},
                                          δ(q, σ) := σ    ∀q ∈ Q, σ ∈ Σ, σ 6= ⊥,
                                                  δ(q, ⊥) := q     ∀q ∈ Q.

Lemma 7 (Simulating a memory semiautomaton). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be the memory semiautomaton. Let
q0 ∈ Q, and T ≥ 1. Then, there is a depth-1 Transformer which continuously simulates AT,q0 , with embedding
dimension 4, width 4|Q|, and ∞-weight norms at most 2T log(|Q|T ). It has H = 1 head with embedding
dimension k = 2, and a 2-layer ReLU MLP.

Proof. We start in state q0 ∈ Q. Our goal is to identify the closest non-⊥ token and output the corresponding
state. The attention construction is:
    • Select d = 4, k = 2, H = 1.
    • Select input symbol encodings

                              E(σ) := (1[σ = ⊥]q0 + 1[σ 6= ⊥]σi )e1 + 1[σ = ⊥]e2 + e4 ∈ Rd ,

       where the first coordinate denotes the action that sets the state21 , the second coordinate denotes
       whether the input is the no-op action ⊥, and the fourth coordinate is padding.
    • We use positional encoding Pt,: := (t/T ) · e3 .
21 Technically σ = ⊥ does not reset the state. We will see that when q is selected, it must be that the semiautomaton is always
                                                                      0
  in state q0 .



                                                              46
   • WQ :=  −2e4 e4 ∈ R4×2 , WK := ce2  ce3 ∈ R4×2 for c = O(T log(|Q|T )) as explained below,
                                            

     WV := e1 0 ∈ R4×2 , and WC> := e1 0 ∈ R4×2 .
The unnormalized attention score computed for position i attending to j is c(j/T − 1[σj = ⊥]). Note that
the max attention value is achieved at the closest reset action: the unnormalized scored is non-negative if
and only if σj 6= ⊥, and j/T increases with j ensuring that the closest position is chosen.
Denote this max position as jmax . In the setting of hard attention, the output for the ith token after the
attention module is E(σjmax )> e1 . In particular, this value is q0 if and only if σj = ⊥, ∀j ≤ i, i.e. the
semiautomaton never leaves the starting state. Otherwise, the value is the value of the nearest non-⊥ state
(including the current state).
By Lemma 4 (with γ = c/T ), we can approximate hard-attention by soft-attention weights α ∈ RT , that is, kα−
ejmax k1 ≤ 2T ·e−c/T . This implies, that the output of the attention layer,               >              >
                                                                             P
                                                                              j≤i αj E(σj ) e1 − E(σjmax ) e1 ≤
2T |Q| · e−c/T . Then, the MLP can simply round the first coordinate, and we can invoke Lemma 1 with
∆ = 8T |Q| exp(−c/T ) = 1/2 (for c = T log(16|Q|T )), Bx = |Q|, By = |Q| to get weight norm bound
(4 + log(|Q|T ))T ≤ 2 log(|Q|T )T and width 4|Q|.

C.3.2    Prime decompositions of groups and semigroups
The key idea behind the proof of Theorem 2 is that all semigroups (and thus, all transformation semigroups
of semiautomata) admit a “prime factorization” into elementary components, which turn out to be simple
groups and copies of the flip-flop monoid, which have both been discussed in Appendix A.2. This is somewhat
counterintuitive: the only constraint on the algebraic structure of a semigroup is associativity (and indeed,
there are many more semigroups than groups), but all of these structures can be built using these two types
of “atoms”. These components, as well as the cascade product under which this notion of “factorization” is
defined, are naturally and efficiently implementable by constant-depth self-attention networks.

The special case of groups. We begin by discussing the analogous decomposition for groups, which
generalizes the fact that integers have unique prime factorizations. Let G be a finite group, and let

                                     G = Hn . Hn−1 . · · · . H1 . H0 = 1

be a composition series: each Hi is a maximal proper normal subgroup of Hi+1 ; 1 denotes the trivial group
with 1 element. Then the quotient group Hi+1 /Hi is called a composition factor. The Jordan-Hölder theorem
tells us that one can think about the set of composition factors as an invariant of G.
Theorem 6 (Jordan-Hölder). Any two composition series of G are equivalent: they have the same length n,
and the sequences of compositions factors Hi+1 /Hi are equivalent under permutation and isomorphism.
When each Hi+1 /Hi is abelian, G is called a solvable group. It turns out that each Hi+1 /Hi is a simple
group, so the composition factors of solvable groups can only be cyclic groups of prime order (because every
finitely generated abelian group is a direct product of cyclic groups, and, of these, only those of prime order
are simple). The smallest non-solvable group is A5 , realizable as the group of even permutations of 5 elements.
As a part of Theorem 2, we will use the composition series to iteratively build neural networks which simulates
solvable group operations, requiring intricate constructions to do this with depth independent of the sequence
length T .

Adding memory to handle semigroups. Now, we move on to semigroups. When not all of the input
symbols to a semiautomaton induce permutations, we no longer have the group axiom of invertibility (also, if
there is no explicit identity symbol, we are not guaranteed to have the monoid axiom of an identity element
either). Intuitively, this would seem to induce a much larger family of algebraic structures; an analogy, which
is formalizable by representation theory, is that we are now considering a collection of general matrices
under multiplication, instead of only invertible ones. The non-invertible transitions collapse the rank of
the transformations, reducing the set of reachable transformations whenever they are included in an input
sequence.


                                                      47
A landmark result of Krohn and Rhodes (1965) tames the seemingly vast and unorderly universe of general
finite semigroups. It extends the Jordan-Hölder theorem to the case of semigroups, for a more sophisticated
notion of decomposition. Since that work, many variations have arisen, in terms of its precise statement,
construction of the decomposition, and proof of correctness. Out of these, an important development is the
holonomy decomposition method (Eilenberg, 1974, Zeiger, 1967), which forms the basis of our results. We
extract the definitions and theorems from Maler and Pnueli (1994), whose exposition emphasizes explicitly
tracking the construction of the semiautomaton. We also refer to Egri-Nagy and Nehaniv (2015), Maler
(2010), Zimmermann (2020) as recent expositions, containing historical context.
Definition 4 (Cascade product; cf. (Maler, 2010), Definition 11). Let n be a positive integer. For each i ∈ [n],
let A(i) = (Q(i) , Σ(i) , δ (i) ) be a semiautomaton. For i ∈ {2, . . . , n}, let φ(i) : Q(1) × · · · × Q(i−1) × Σ → Σ(i)
denote a dependency function. This object ({A(i) }; {φ(i) }) is called a transformation cascade, and defines
a cascade product semiautomaton A = (Q(1) × · · · × Q(n) , Σ(1) , δ) by “feedforward simulation” under the
dependency function. We define δ by the i-th component of its output (which we call δ (≤i) : Q(1) × · · · ×
Q(n) × Σ(1) : Q(i) ):
                                         δ (≤i) ((q (1) , . . . , q (n) ), σ) := δ (i) (q (i) , σ (i) ),
where                                             (
                                       (i)            σ                                    if i = 1
                                   σ         :=                                                      .
                                                      φ(i) (q (1) , . . . , q (i−1) , σ)   otherwise
The corresponding transformation semigroup T (A) is known as a cascade product semigroup.
Intuitively, the cascade specifies a way to compose semiautomata hierarchically: the first layer i = 1 maps
input sequences to its state sequence, and each internal layer receives an input which depends on the states
of all of the preceding layers. Algebraically, the cascade product semigroup is a subsemigroup of the larger
wreath product of semigroups (the straightforward analogue of the wreath product of groups, discussed in
Section A.2). Although this is useful from an algebraic point of view, we will not use this perspective;
the cascade product is a smaller substructure of the wreath product which is sufficient for semiautomaton
simulation.
Finally, it will be convenient to define permutation-reset semiautomata, which are a useful intermediate step
in the Krohn-Rhodes decomposition. To obtain our final result, we will further break these semiautomata
down into flip-flops and simple groups.
Definition 5 (Permutation-reset semiautomaton; cf. (Maler and Pnueli, 1994), Definition 12). A semiau-
tomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ) is a permutation-reset semiautomaton if, for each σ ∈ Σ, the transition function
δ(·, σ) : Q → Q is either a bijection (i.e. a permutation over the states of Q) or constant (i.e. maps every state
to some q(σ)). Associated with each permutation-reset semiautomaton is its permutation group, generated by
only the bijections.
Now we can state the Krohn-Rhodes theorem, which decomposes every finite semiautomaton into a transfor-
mation cascade.
Theorem 7 (Krohn-Rhodes). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be a semiautomaton. Then, there exists a transformation
cascade {A(1) , . . . , A(n) ; φ(2) , . . . , φ(n) }, defining a cascade product semiautomaton A0 , such that:
  (i) The input symbol space of A(1) (and thus, that of A0 ) is Σ, the same as that of A.
 (ii) Letting Q(i) denote the state space of A(i) , there exists a function W : Q(1) × · · · × Q(n) → Q such
      that W ◦ A0T,q0 simulates AT,q0 for all T ≥ 1, q0 ∈ Q. For each i ∈ [n], the transformation semigroup
      T (A(i) ) is a permutation-reset semiautomaton with at most |Q| states, whose permutation group is a
      (possibly trivial) subgroup of T (A) (Maler and Pnueli (1994), Theorem 4).
(iii) The number of semiautomata in the cascade is n ≤ 2|Q| . Furthermore, the cascade has at most |Q| levels:
      the indices can be partitioned into at most L ≤ |Q| contiguous subsets N (1) = {1, . . . , n1 }, N (2) , {n1 +
      1, . . . , n1 + n2 }, . . . , N (L) = {n − nL + 1, . . . , n} such that φ(i) only depends on input indices from
      previous partitions (Maler and Pnueli (1994), Claim 11 & Corollary 12).
With this decomposition, we are now able to define a solvable semiautomaton.


                                                                        48
Definition 6 (Solvable semiautomaton). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be a semiautomaton. We call A solvable if all
the permutation groups associated with all of the permutation-reset automata from Theorem 7 are solvable
groups.
The remainder of this section will build our construction from the bottom up:
   • Appendix C.3.3 will build up from the base case of cyclic groups (Lemma 6), using increasingly
     sophisticated notions of group products, culminating in a recursive construction which simulates all
     stages of the Jordan-Hölder composition series. The crucial step is a construction for simulating the
     semidirect product of groups, given networks which simulate the individual components; this allows us
     to handle the solvable non-abelian groups.
   • Appendix C.3.4 will build networks which simulate permutation-reset semiautomata. A new base
     case arises: the memory unit (Lemma 7), a semiautomaton whose transformation semigroup is a
     generalization of the flip-flop monoid. Combining the constructions for solvable groups and memory
     units, we obtain simulators for solvable permutation-reset semiautomata. Finally, the cascade product
     guaranteed by Krohn-Rhodes (Theorem 7) glues all of these pieces together, giving us the final result.

C.3.3    Simulating solvable groups
We begin by handling groups. Now, we are ready to specify the recursive constructions which “glue” these
components together to form solvable groups. We will proceed in a “bottom-up” order:
  (i) Define a canonical semiautomaton AG corresponding to each group G (Definition 7), such that if a
      network can simulate AG , it can simulate any other semiautomaton whose transformation semigroup
      T (AG ) is G. This lets us talk about simulating groups, rather than particular semiautomata. We
      will show how to turn simulators for groups N and H into simulators for extensions of N by H, for
      increasingly sophisticated extensions, until all cases have been captured.
 (ii) Show how to build the trivial extension: given networks which simulate the groups N and H, simulate
      the direct product G ∼= N × H, by simply running the individual simulators in parallel (Lemma 8).
      Combined with Lemma 6, this immediately allows us to simulate arbitrary abelian groups with depth 1,
      since every abelian group is isomorphic to a direct product of cyclic groups.
 (iii) Show how to build a split extension: given networks which simulate a normal subgroup N and quotient
       H, construct a network which simulates any semidirect product G ∼        = N o H (Lemma 9). This is the
       first place where we will require a sequential cascade of layers. It will allow us to handle certain families
       of non-abelian groups (including S3 , D2n , A4 , S4 )
 (iv) Show how to build arbitrary extensions (any G which contains N as a normal subgroup, and for which
      the quotient group G/N is isomorphic to H), using the wreath product (Lemma 10), which contains all
      of the group extensions. The wreath product is itself the semidirect product between a |H|-way direct
      product and H, so this can be done in a constant number of layers, by the above. This finally lets us
      implement any step of a composition series. In particular, using cyclic groups as a simulable base case,
      this shows that we can simulate all solvable groups.

Step (i). It will be convenient to associate with each group G a canonical “complete” semiautomaton for
the class of all semiautomata A for which T (A) = G. It is simply the one whose input symbol space Σ is
every transformation reachable by some sequence of inputs (i.e. every element of T (A)). (For a semigroup,
we would also want to adjoin the identity element if it is missing, however, we will only find it useful to define
this for groups.)
Definition 7 (Canonical group semiautomaton; simulating a group). Let G be a finite group. Then, we
define the canonical group semiautomaton for G as the semiautomaton (Q, Σ, δ) defined by:
   • Q := G, the set of elements of G. Note that if (for example) G = Sn , we are setting the state space to
     be the set of n! permutations, not the ground set [n].
   • Σ := G. That is, we include all functions in the input symbol space.


                                                        49
    • δ(g, h) := h · g, for all ∀g ∈ Q, h ∈ Σ. (In algebraic terms, we are embedding the G into its left regular
      representation, a.k.a. left multiplication action.) Thus, if we take q0 to be the identity element, the
      sequence of states q1 , q2 , . . . , qT corresponds to qt = σt σt−1 . . . σ1 .
    • When we simulate the canonical group semiautomaton, we will always choose q0 to be the identity
      element eG .
A sequence-to-sequence network is said to continuously simulate G at length T if it continuously simulates
the canonical group semiautomaton of G at length T .

Notation for composable implementations. Let us furthermore formalize an implementation of group
simulation. For any finite group G, T ≥ 1, q0 ∈ G, let AG = (Q, Σ, δ) be the canonical semiautomaton for G.
Then, we summarize a family of concrete implementations of networks which continuously simulate of AT,eG .
We write sim : (G, T ) 7→ (E : G → Rd , ftf : RT ×d → RT ×d , W : Rd → G), where the shape parameters of the
output can depend on G, T .
To reduce notational clutter, we will access the shape attributes of an implementation via “object-oriented”
notation, defining
                       sim(G, T ).{depth, dim, heads, headDim, mlpWidth, normBound}
to respectively denote the complexity-parameterizing quantities

                                                  {L, d, H, k, max{d0j }, B},
                                                                 j

defined in Appendix A.4. Also, we will let sim(G, T ).{E, θ, W } respectively denote the encoding layer E,
network parameters θnn , and decoding layer W .

Canonical encodings of group elements. We also enforce that throughout our constructions of networks
which simulate groups, we will maintain that all networks and their submodules manipulate encodings via
integer vectors in a consecutive range {0, . . . , n − 1}. Furthermore, the identity element will always map
to the zero vector. We will keep track of the dimensionality of these vectors sim(G, T ).repDim ≤ d, and
their maximum entries sim(G, T ).repSize − 1. All encoders E and decoders W will map all group elements
to and from this kind of representation, and we will choose W = E −1 . In all, the networks will keep a
repDim-dimensional “workspace” of integer vectors, with entries bounded by repSize − 1. When combining
groups via the various products constructions, we will combine the components’ individual workspaces to
create a larger workspace for the product group’s elements.
We make some additional remarks on implementations:
    • Note that the canonical semiautomaton “forgets” about the semiautomaton abstraction, and never
      assumes that G is a permutation group on the original state space Q of the semiautomaton we would
      like to simulate. Indeed, when N / G are permutation groups on Q, there is no natural permutation
      group on Q associated with the quotient H ∼= G/N ; it turns out that will consider simulators for N
      and H.22
    • To return to solving the simulation problem for some semiautomaton A = (Q, Σ, δ) whose transformation
      semigroup is isomorphic to G (at length T and initial state q0 ), let µ : G → SQ denote this isomorphism.
      We use AGT,eG (σ1:T ) as the network, with an encoding layer E◦µ
                                                                      −1
                                                                          , and decoding layer (π 7→ π(q0 ))◦µ◦W ,
      which can be memorized by an MLP of width O(|G|) via Lemma 2.
    • The modular counter semiautomaton, for which we constructed a simulator in Lemma 6, is the canonical
      group semiautomaton for the corresponding cyclic group Cn . Calling this construction simCn , we can
      easily verify that it satisfies the canonical simulator’s conditions, and:
          ◦ simCn .depth = 1.
22 There is nothing in general preventing quotient groups from being extremely large groups which are not realizable as smaller

  permutation groups. For concrete examples, see (Kovács and Praeger, 1989). When we ultimately specialize to simulating the
  composition series of solvable groups, the largest groups we will handle will be the cyclic groups of prime order, so we will in
  the end be guaranteed that the groups we want to simulate are realizable with ≤ |Q| states, but not directly or canonically.


                                                               50
                  (gt(1), gt(2), gt(3))                                                                      (g≤t , g≤t , g≤t )×
                                                                                                               (1) (2) (3)




                                                               simulate all G (i)

Figure 16: Recursive construction for simulating a direct product of groups G(1) × · · · × G(n) . Any number of
groups can be simulated in parallel without increasing the depth.


         ◦ simCn .dim = 3.
         ◦ simCn .heads = 1.
         ◦ simCn .headDim = 1.
         ◦ simCn .mlpWidth = 4|G| · T .
         ◦ simCn .normBound ≤ 4|G| · T + 2 ≤ 6|G| · T .
         ◦ simCn .repDim = 1.
         ◦ simCn .repSize = |G|.

Step (ii). As a precursor to the more sophisticated products, we formalize the obvious fact that two
non-interacting parallel semiautomata can be simulated without increasing the depth. First, we define the
direct product semiautomaton:
Definition 8 (Direct product of semiautomata). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ), A0 = (Q0 , Σ0 , δ 0 ) be two semiautomata.
Then, A × A0 = (Q × Q0 , Σ ∪ {e} × Σ0 ∪ {e}, δ × δ 0 ) denotes the natural direct product semiautomaton. Its
states are ordered pairs (q ∈ Q, q 0 ∈ Q0 ). Its input symbols are defined similarly, adjoining identity inputs (so
that δ(q, e) = q, δ 0 (q 0 , e) = q 0 ). The transitions δ × δ 0 are defined such that

                                          (δ × δ 0 )((q, q 0 ), (σ, σ 0 )) := (δ(q, σ), δ 0 (q 0 , σ 0 )).

Note that under this definition, we have T (A × A0 ) = T (A) × T (A0 ). In particular, for two groups G, H, we
have G × H = T (AG ) × T (AH ) = T (AG×H ) = G × H.
Lemma 8 (Direct product via parallel simulation). Let G(1) , . . . , G(n) be a collection of finite groups, and
let T ≥ 1. Suppose each group admits a simulation simi := sim(G(i) , T ). Then, there is a simulation of the
direct product group sim× := sim(G(1) × . . . × G(n) , T ), whose sizes satisfy:
         ◦ sim× .depth = maxi {simi .depth}.
                       P
         ◦ sim× .dim = i {simi .dim}.
                         P
         ◦ sim× .heads = i {simi .heads}.
         ◦ sim× .headDim = maxi {simi .headDim}.
                           P
         ◦ sim× .mlpWidth = i {simi .mlpWidth}.
         ◦ sim× .normBound ≤ maxi {simi .normBound}.
                         P
         ◦ sim× .repDim = i {simi .repDim}.
         ◦ sim× .repSize = maxi {simi .repSize}.


                                                                        51
                                                                 simulate N

                                                     ϕh−1                      ϕh

                (gt, ht)                                                                       (g≤t, h≤t)⋊




                                    simulate H       mix                      unmix

Figure 17: Recursive construction for simulating the semidirect product N o H. The quotient group H is
simulated first; these outputs are used to “re-map” the inputs into the simulator for N .


Proof. First, we pad all of the individual simi with layers implementing identity (add residual connections,
and set attention WV and all MLP weight matrices to 0), so that all of them have depth maxi {simi .depth}.
Then, the intuition is to construct the direct product semiautomaton by concatenating the “workspaces” of
each G(i) . In other words, we set the canonical encoding sim× .E of (g (1) , . . . , g (n) ) to be the concatenation of
each simi ’s encodings.

                                                                                Pworkspace. To enable this,
The direct product simply lets each simi take inputs and outputs in its individual
we need enough parallel dimensions. We set an embedding space of dimension i {simi .dim} (and similarly
within the heads and MLPs), partitioning the coordinates such that in the product construction, each simi .E
and simi .θ only reads and writes to its own dimensions.
This clearly simulates the direct product group. Figure 16 provides a sketch of this construction.

Note that the direct product construction already allows us to simulate all finite abelian groups in constant
depth, since each such group is isomorphic to the direct product of a collection of abelian groups of prime
power order.

Step (iii). Now, as a harder (and conceptually crucial) case, we show how to simulate a group which is a
semidirect product of two groups we already know how to simulate. This encompasses the direct product
as a special case, but can now handle some non-abelian groups which admit such decompositions (like the
dihedral group D2n ). The catch is that we will have to simulate these groups using a sequential cascade of
the individual simulators. This is the key lemma which lets us simulate non-abelian groups:
Lemma 9 (Semidirect product via 4-stage cascade). Let G be a finite group which is isomorphic to a
semidirect product: G ∼
                      = N o H, where N is a normal subgroup of G. Let T ≥ 1. Suppose N, H admit
simulations simN := sim(N, T ), simH := sim(H, T ). Then, there is a simulation of G, simo := sim(G, T ),
whose sizes satisfy:
         ◦ simo .depth = simN .depth + simH .depth + 2.
         ◦ simo .dim = simN .dim + simH .dim.
         ◦ simo .heads = max{simN .heads, simH .heads}.
         ◦ simo .headDim = max{simN .headDim, simH .headDim}.
         ◦ simo .mlpWidth = max{sim{N,H} .mlpWidth, 4|G|}.
         ◦ simo .normBound ≤ max{sim{N,H} .normBound, 6 sim{N,H} .repSize, simN .repDim + simH .repDim}.
         ◦ simo .repDim = simN .repDim + simH .repDim.
         ◦ simo .repSize = max{simN .repSize, simH .repSize}.

Proof. The intuition is as follows, using the dihedral group D2n ∼
                                                                 = Cn o C2 as an example:



                                                            52
    • For simplicity, let us think of the “reversible car on a circular world” semiautomaton, whose transforma-
      tion semigroup is D2n . Its state consists of a direction ∈ {+1, −1}, and a position ∈ {0, 1, . . . , n − 1}.
      It has two types of inputs: “advance by i” (increment the position by i in the current direction, modulo
      n), and “reverse” (flip the sign of the direction). Our simulation task is to track the car’s state sequence,
      given a sequence of inputs (in constant depth, of course).
    • It is intuitively clear that we can (and should) compute the sequence corresponding to “direction at
      time t”, which is equivalent to simulating the parity semiautomaton.
    • We will convert the “advance” moves via a “basis transformation”: whenever the current direction is −1,
      an “advance by i” should be converted into −i. Then, we have reduced the problem to the prefix sum.

Algorithm. This intuition essentially shows us how to implement arbitrary semidirect products; we derive
the basis change from φ. Before implementing it with Transformer operations, we formalize this “basis
transformation”. Recall that by the definition of a semidirect product, the elements of N o H can be written
as pairs (g ∈ N, h ∈ H), equipped with a homomorphism φ : h → Aut(N ) which specifies a multiplication
rule:
                                      (g, h) · (g 0 , h0 ) := (gφh (g 0 ), hh0 ).
Let us write down the properties of φ:
    • φ is a homomorphism. That is, φh·h0 = φh (φh0 (·)) = φh ◦ φh0 as permutations on N .
    • The output of that homomorphism, φh , is also a homomorphism. That is, φh (gg 0 ) = φh (g) · φh (g 0 ).
Let us roll out the definition of the semidirect product, given a sequence of inputs (gt , ht ):

                                         (g2 , h2 ) · (g1 , h1 ) = (g2 · φh2 (g1 ), h2 h1 ),

                            (g3 , h3 ) · (g2 , h2 ) · (g1 , h1 ) = (g3 · φh3 (g2 · φh2 (g1 )), h3 h2 h1 ),
                         (g4 , h4 ) · · · (g1 , h1 ) = (g4 · φh4 (g3 · φh3 (g2 · φh2 (g1 ))), h4 h3 h2 h1 ).
In general, by induction, letting (g≤t , h≤t ) denote (gt , ht ) · · · (g1 , h1 ), we have

                          g≤t = gt · φht (gt−1 ) · φht ht−1 (gt−2 ) · · · φht ...h3 (g2 ) · φht ...h2 (g1 ).

Applying φ−1
          h≤t on both sides, we notice that


                            φ−1            −1           −1                   −1           −1
                             h≤t (g≤t ) = φh≤t (gt ) · φh≤t−1 (gt−1 ) · · · φh≤2 (g2 ) · φh≤1 (g1 ).


Thus, it suffices to compute each h≤t = ht ht−1 . . . h1 , map each gt 7→ φ−1
                                                                           h≤t (gt ), compute the prefix products
in these “coordinates”, then invert the mapping to get back g≤t .

Implementation. Like before, we partition the embedding dimension in our construction simo into blocks,
one for each component simulator. Let us index the dimensions by the dN := simN .dim indices in the “N
channel” and analogously for the dH -dimensional “H channel”. We choose the canonical encoding E to map
elements to their individual channels:

                  E(g, h) = simN .E(g) (in the N channel) + simH .E(h) (in the H channel).

We proceed to specify the construction layer-by-layer. Let L{N,H} denote sim{N,H} .depth.

Layers 1 through LH : quotient group simulation. As suggested by the intuitive sketch, we begin
with LH Transformer layers, which are just a copy of simH .θ, reading and writing in the H channel, with a
parallel residual layer in the N channel. So far, after these LH layers, the output at each position t is an
integer vector, whose H channel contains h≤t , and whose N channel contains simN .E(gt ).



                                                                 53
Layer LH + 1: basis change. Now, let us add one more “mixing” Transformer layer, whose attention
block is identity23 ; we only need a 3-layer MLP block, which represents the function

                                               (g ∈ N, h ∈ H) 7→ φ−1
                                                                  h (g).

To do this, we invoke Lemma 2 (choosing the output to be in the same representation as that used by simN .E,
in the N channel), with
                                ∆ = 1, din = simN .repDim + simH .repDim,
                            Bx = max{simN .repSize, simH .repSize}, By = simN .repSize,
giving us a construction with
                                         d1 ≤ 4(|N | + |H|),      d2 ≤ |N | · |H|,
                            kW1 k∞ ≤ 4,      kb1 k∞ ≤ 6 max{simN .repSize, simH .repSize},
                kW2 k∞ ≤ 1,      kb2 k∞ ≤ simN .repDim + simH .repDim,          kW3 k∞ ≤ simN .repSize.
We also add residual connections in the H channel. In summary, after this layer, the output at each position
t is an integer vector, whose H channel contains h≤t , and whose N channel contains φ−1h≤t (gt ).


Layers LH + 1 through LH + LN + 1: normal group simulation. The next LN layers are a copy of
simH .θ, with residual connections in the H channel. After these layers, the output at each position t is an
integer vector, whose H channel contains h≤t , and whose N channel contains φ−1 h≤t (g≤t ).


Layer LH + LN + 2: undoing the basis change. Now, we add one more Transformer layer, whose
attention block is identity; we will again use a 3-layer MLP block to represent the inverse of our mapping
function
                                           (g ∈ N, h ∈ H) 7→ φh (g).
This uses Lemma 2, with exactly the same bounds.
At the end of this final “unmixing” layer, the output at each position t is an integer vector, whose H channel
contains h≤t , and whose N channel contains g≤t ; thus, this is a valid simulation of the semidirect product.
This construction is sketched in Figure 17.

Step (iv). Note that H ∼  = G/N does not imply that G is a semidirect product of N and H. Thus, although
simulating semidirect products allows us to handle some families of non-abelian groups, this does not yet allow
us to handle general solvable groups (i.e. general steps of a composition series, even with a cyclic quotient
group). The smallest example is the non-abelian quaternion group Q8 , the group of unit quaternions under
multiplication, which cannot be realized as a semidirect product of subgroups. Instead, we need to appeal to
the Krasner–Kaloujnine universal embedding theorem (Krasner and Kaloujnine, 1951): a characterization of
all of the groups G which are extensions of N by H, as subgroups of the wreath product N o H.
Lemma 10 (Wreath product via direct and semidirect products). Let G be a finite group which is isomorphic
to a wreath product: G ∼= N o H. Let T ≥ 1. Suppose N, H admit simulations simN := sim(N, T ), simH :=
sim(H, T ). Then, there is a simulation of G, simo := sim(G, T ). In the case where simo .repDim = 1, the sizes
satisfy:
         ◦ simo .depth = simN .depth + simH .depth + 2.
         ◦ simo .dim = |H| · simN .dim + simH .dim.
         ◦ simo .heads = max{|H| · simN .heads, simH .heads}.
         ◦ simo .headDim = max{simN .headDim, simH .headDim}.
23 Even when an attention block simply implements identity, we choose to include it, rather than combining the preceding and

  subsequent MLPs into a single MLP. This is to ensure that if we compose a number of Transformer layers that depends on |Q|,
  the depth of each MLP is bounded by an absolute constant.



                                                            54
                                                                 simulate all G (i)
                                                                    (identical)




    (gt(1), . . . , gt(|H|), ht)                                                                            (g≤t
                                                                                                              (1)
                                                                                                                  , . . . , g≤t
                                                                                                                             (|H|)
                                                                                                                                  , h≤t)≀




                                                       ϕh−1                            ϕh




                                       simulate H      mix                            unmix


Figure 18: Recursive construction for simulating the wreath product N o H. One independent copy of N is
instantiated for each element of H, while the simulator for H permutes them.


               ◦ simo .mlpWidth = max{|H| · simN .mlpWidth, simH .mlpWidth, 5|H|2 |N |}.
               ◦ simo .normBound ≤ max{sim{N,H} .normBound, 6 |H|}.
               ◦ simo .repDim = |H| · simN .repDim + 1.
               ◦ simo .repSize = max{simN .repSize, simH .repSize}.

Proof. Even though the wreath product’s algebraic structure can be very complex, the construction just
requires us to implement its relatively simple description. Applying Lemma 8, we have a network sim× which
simulates N × . . . × N . Then, we simply apply Lemma 9, using simH to “re-map” inputs to sim× for the
normal subgroup. This construction is sketched in Figure 18.

Concise implementation of reindexing. We can make one interesting improvement over a generic
application of Lemmas 8 and 9: the structure of the mixing function φ, which specifies the semidirect product,
is extremely regular. Very fortunately, the structure of φ allows us to avoid any dependence on the size of the
wreath product group (|N ||H| · |H|) in the size measures of the implementation. A general automorphism
on N × · · · × N is specified by its |N ||H| values. However, in this case, φ is just a permutation, specified
by how each of the |H| channels should switch places. Thus, much like the function composition gadget in
Theorem 1, we can construct a simpler MLP than the generic one from Lemma 2.
Specifically, we would like to approximate the function φ : H × (N × · · · × N ) → (N × · · · × N ), which simply
applies πh to the indices:
                                 φh (g (1) , . . . , g (|H|) ) := (g (πh (1)) , . . . , g (πh (|H|)) ).
In the component neural networks’ representation space, we need the MLP to implement
                                                                                                                    
         simN .E(g (1) ), . . . , simN .E(g (|H|) ), simH .E(h) 7→ simN .E(g (πh (1)) ), . . . , simN .E(g (πh (|H|)) ) ,

recalling that the elements of g, h are represented by integer vectors with ∞-norm at most sim{N,H} .repBound.
Notice that when the representation of |H| is a single integer, restricting to any particular coordinate in the
representation of an element g, this is the same composition problem of function transition maps solved by
Lemma 5 in the proof of Theorem 1, which uses its left inputs to permute its right inputs (modulo converting
the representations from {0, . . . , |H| − 1} to {1, . . . , |H|}, which we can do by shifting the indicators at the


                                                               55
input and final-layer output weights). Thus, |N | · simN .dim parallel copies of the 3-layer function composition
MLP suffice, yielding
                           d1 = 4|H|2 |N | + |H| · |N | < 5|H|2 |N |, d2 = |H|2 |N |,
             kW1 k∞ ≤ 4|H|,   kb1 k∞ ≤ 6|H|,    kW200 W20 k∞ ≤ 4|H|,   kb002 k∞ = |H|,   kW3 k∞ = 1.
When the information about group elements in H is encoded by multiple integers, it is straightforward to
extend this construction, by replacing the one-dimensional indicator with the multidimensional indicator
from Lemma 2. We will skip the details of this case, since our final results are only about solvable groups;
when we want to simulate a general group extension, it will always come from the composition series, so that
H is always a cyclic group of prime order.

Thus, for general group extensions G, we can construct simo , the wreath product simulator for N o H, and
combine the individual simulators. Note that we can throw away the excess group elements from the simulator:
only include in simo .E, simo .W the group elements which correspond to the subgroup isomorphic to G. Then,
no part of this construction needs to maintain a width or matrix entry scaling with |N o H|.
Putting all of this together, we state an intermediate theorem, which is our most general result for groups:
Theorem 8 (Simulation of solvable groups). Let G be a solvable group which is isomorphic to a permutation
group on n elements. Let T ≥ 1. Then, there is a Transformer network sim := sim(G, T ) which simulates G
at length T , for which we have the following size bounds:
        ◦ sim.depth ≤ 3 log2 |G|.
        ◦ sim.dim ≤ 2|G|.
        ◦ sim.heads ≤ 2|G|.
        ◦ sim.headDim = 1.
        ◦ sim.mlpWidth ≤ 20nT |G|.
        ◦ sim.normBound ≤ 6nT .
        ◦ sim.repDim ≤ 2|G|.
        ◦ sim.repSize ≤ n.

Proof. Let
                                      G = H` . H`−1 . · · · . H1 . H0 = 1
denote the composition series. Then, because G is solvable, all of the quotient groups Ki := Hi+1 /Hi are
abelian, thus cyclic groups of prime order. Since G is assumed to be a subgroup of Sn , none of these primes
can be greater than n. Thus, every quotient group Ki in the chain satisfies 2 ≤ |Ki | ≤ n. Also, note that the
length of the composition series ` is at most log2 (|G|) (since each inclusion halves the size of the group).
We start with a simulation of H1 , which must be a cyclic group, and build the sequence of group extensions
recursively until we obtain G. In the worst case (in the sense that the implementation size bounds from
Lemma 10 are maximized), each step in the composition series must be manifested by a wreath products
with K := Cn . Recall that we have:
        ◦ simK .depth = 1.
        ◦ simK .dim = 3.
        ◦ simK .heads = 1.
        ◦ simK .headDim = 1.
        ◦ simK .mlpWidth = 4nT .
        ◦ simK .normBound ≤ 6nT .
        ◦ simK .repDim = 1.


                                                       56
         ◦ simK .repSize ≤ n.
At each step i = 0, . . . , ` − 1, Lemma 10, with H := Ki , N := Hi , implies:
         ◦ simHi+1 .depth ≤ simKi .depth + 3 (1 more layer to simulate the cyclic group Ki , and 2 from the
           wreath product’s mixing operations).
         ◦ simHi+1 .dim ≤ |Ki | · simHi .dim + 1   (noting that all of the components can reuse the same ⊥ and
           positional encoding dimensions).
         ◦ simHi+1 .heads ≤ |Ki | · simHi .heads + 1.
         ◦ simHi+1 .headDim ≤ max{1, 1, . . . , 1} = 1.
         ◦ simHi+1 .mlpWidth ≤ max{|Ki | · simHi .mlpWidth, 4nT, 5|Ki |2 · |Hi |}.
         ◦ simHi+1 .normBound ≤ max{6nT, 6 |Ki |}.
         ◦ simHi+1 .repDim = |Ki | · simHi .repDim + 1.
         ◦ simHi+1 .repSize ≤ n.

                      Q inequalities ` ≤ blog2 T c times gives us the desired bounds. Note that we are using
Iterating these recursive
                                        wellQas the fact that
Lagrange’s theorem ( i |Ki | = |G|), as P                  Q for positive integers m1 , . . . , m` ≥ 2, we have a
bound on the series of prefix products:    i  j≤i m  i ≤ 2  j≤` mi .




C.3.4    Simulating semigroups
Now, using this construction and the results developed in the previous section for groups, we complete the
construction for semigroups:
   • We combine the memory gate construction (Lemma 7) and any network simulating a group to implement
     the corresponding permutation-reset semiautomaton (Definition 5), the elements of the cascade in
     Theorem 7.
   • To finish, we implement the cascade product (Definition 4) of these permutation-reset semiautomata,
     guaranteed to exist by Theorem 7. This gives the full result.
First, we summarize the findings of Lemma 7, naming this neural network simM in our “object-oriented”
notation. Note that since we are no longer simulating canonical group semiautomata past this point,
repDim, repSize are no longer well-defined.
         ◦ simM .depth = 1.
         ◦ simM .dim = 4.
         ◦ simM .heads = 1.
         ◦ simM .headDim = 2.
         ◦ simM .mlpWidth = 4|Q|.
         ◦ simM .normBound ≤ 2T log(|Q| T ).
Lemma 11 (Simulating a permutation-reset semiautomaton). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be a permutation-reset
semiautomaton (see Definition 5), and let G denote its permutation group. Let T ≥ 1, q0 ∈ Q. Let
simG := sim(G, T ) be a Transformer network which continuously simulates G at length T . Then, there is a
Transformer network sim0G which continuously simulates AT,q0 , with size bounds:
         ◦ sim0G .depth = simG .depth + simM .depth + 1 ≤ 3 log2 |G| + 2.
         ◦ sim0G .dim = simG .dim + simG .repDim + simM .dim ≤ |G| + |Q| + 4.
         ◦ sim0G .heads = simG .heads + simM .heads ≤ 2|G| + 1.


                                                          57
         ◦ sim0G .headDim = simG .headDim + simM .headDim + simG .repDim ≤ |Q| + 3.
         ◦ sim0G .mlpWidth = simG .mlpWidth + simM .mlpWidth + |G|2 |Q| ≤ 20nT |G| + 4|Q| + |G|2 |Q|.
         ◦ sim0G .normBound ≤ max{simG .normBound, simM .normBound, 6|Q|} ≤ 6|Q| T log T .

Proof. Without loss of generality, we will let Q := [|Q|].
We split the embedding space in our construction into two channels: the simG .dim dimensions used by G,
and a channel consisting of 4 additional dimensions, to be used by a copy of the memory semiautomaton,
whose symbol set is Q. Let us call these the G and M channels. For the reset symbols, let EM (σ) denote the
4-dimensional encoding of σ from the memory semiautomaton.
Since we defined G to be isomorphic to the permutation group associated with A, there is a bijection
Φ : G → SQ between group elements and permutations on Q. We choose the embedding E as follows:
                 (
                  sim.E(Φ−1 (δ(·, σ)) (G channel) + EM (⊥) (M channel) , bijections δ(·, σ)
        E(σ) :=                                                                              .
                   sim.E(eG ) (G channel) + EM (qσ ) (M channel) ,       resets δ(·, σ) = qσ

Let LG denote simG .depth.

Layers 1 through LG : group simulation. The first LG layers are chosen to be a copy of simG .θ in the
G channel, and only residual connections in the M channel. At the end of this, given any inputs σ1:T which
map via Φ−1 to gt (letting the group operation be identity when σt is a reset symbol), the outputs in the G
channel will be dG := simG .repDim-dimensional encodings of the prefix group products g≤t = gt gt−1 · · · g1 .
Now, letting r(t) denote the most recent reset (τ ≤ t such that στ is a reset token), we notice that the state
we want can be derived from this sequence:
                                                                            −1
                              qt = Φ(gt gt−1 · · · gr(t) )qσr(t) = Φ(g≤t · g≤r(t) )(qσr(t) ).               (C.2)

Here, if there have been no resets up to time t, we define r(t) to be 0. We treat q0 like a reset symbol at
the beginning of the sequence. Also, note that our canonical group semiautomaton simulator always uses
g0 = eG as its initial state.

Layer LG + 1: memory lookup and copy. To implement the above, at layer LG + 1, we put a copy of the
memory semiautomaton in channel M , setting its initial state to q0 . We will modify this construction slightly,
extending WV with the identity matrix on the dG group element encoding dimensions of channel G. Intuitively,
when the memory unit “fetches” the last non-⊥ token, we would like it to copy the corresponding g≤t . Note
that simG .repSize, the ∞-norm bound on the group element encodings, is at most |Q| by Theorem 8, so we
do not need to modify the WQ , WK norms to increase the attention head’s precision. The final modification
is that we append to WC an identity matrix copying the dG embedding dimensions to a new dG dimensional
channel, which we will call the I (for “invert”) channel (set to 0 in the embedding all preceding layers). Then,
by Lemma 7, at the end of this layer, at each position t, the M channel will contain qσr(t) in dimension 1,
and g≤r(t) in channel I. Finally, in channel G, we use only residual connections, preserving g≤t in channel G.

Layer LG + 2: applying Φ(gh−1 ) pointwise. This finally allows us to execute Equation C.2 at each
position t. We use one more Transformer layer, with attention block implementing identity. The MLP
memorizes the function (g, h, q) 7→ Φ(gh−1 )(q)·e1 (the coordinate is selected arbitrarily), with the concatenated
(dinv := 2·simG .repSize+1)-dimensional encodings on the (G, I, M ) channels, whose activations have ∞-norms
bounded by |Q|. We invoke Lemma 2, with parameters
                                      ∆ = 1, din = dinv , Bx = |Q|, By = |Q|,
giving us a construction with
                                       d1 ≤ 4dinv (|Q| + 1),       d2 ≤ |G|2 |Q|,
                kW1 k∞ ≤ 4,     kb1 k∞ ≤ 6|Q|,       kW2 k∞ ≤ 1,       kb2 k∞ ≤ dinv ,     kW3 k∞ ≤ |Q|.
From this output, W simply decodes the correct qt from dimension 1.


                                                            58
Lemma 12 (Implementing the transformation cascade). Let A = (Q, Σ, δ) be a semiautomaton, and let
T ≥ 1. Let {A(1) , . . . , A(n) ; φ(2) , . . . , φ(n) } be the transformation cascade (Definition 4) which simulates A,
as guaranteed by Theorem 7. For each i, let simi be a Transformer network which continuously simulates
the permutation-reset semiautomaton A(i) at length T . Then, there is a Transformer network simA which
simulates A at length T . Its size bounds are:
         ◦ simA .depth = |Q| · (maxi {simi .depth} + 1) − 1 ≤ 3|Q|2 log |Q| + 7|Q|.
                       Pn
         ◦ simA .dim = i=1 simi .dim + 1 ≤ 2|Q| (|T (A)| + |Q| + 4) + 1.
                         Pn
         ◦ simA .heads = i=1 simi .heads ≤ 2|Q|+1 (|T (A)| + 1).
         ◦ simA .headDim = maxni=1 {simi .headDim} ≤ |Q| + 3.
                           Pn                             |Q|
         ◦ simA .mlpWidth = i=1 simi .mlpWidth+2|Q| |Q|2 |Σ| ≤ 2|Q| (20|Q| |T (A)| T +4|Q|+|T (A)|2 |Q|+
               |Q|
           |Q|2 |Σ|).
         ◦ simA .normBound ≤ maxni=1 {simi .normBound} ∪ {2|Q| (|T (A)| + 5|Q|)} + 6 max{|Q|, |Σ|}
           ≤ max{6|Q| T log T, 2|Q| (|T (A)| + 5|Q|)} + 6 max{|Q|, |Σ|}.

Proof. At this point, most of the work has been done for us.
We createPna separate channel i for each component permutation-reset semiautomaton A . This requires a
                                                                                          (i)

total of i=1 simi .dim embedding dimensions. In addition to these channels, we keep one dimension (with
residual connections throughout the network) to represent the input σt . Let eΣ denotes the unit vector along
this coordinate. Choosing an arbitrary enumeration to identify Σ with [Σ], we select the embeddings to be
E(σ) := σ · eΣ .
The L layers of simA are divided into |Q| subnetworks (which are just Transformer networks), which we will
                                                                                          e Each subnetwork
concatenate sequentially at the end. Let these subnetworks be indexed by `e ∈ {1, . . . , L}.
starts with a parallel simulation (as in the direct product construction of Lemma 8, padding with layers
implementing identity if their depths do not match), combining all of the simi .θ in the `-th level of the
Krohn-Rhodes decomposition, as defined by Theorem 7. Each simi .θ is chosen to operate in its own channel
i. We add residual connections on all of the input/output dimensions in each channel. Then, at the end
of each subnetwork except the final one (1 ≤ `e ≤ L   e − 1), we append one more Transformer layer with
identity attention block, whose MLP implements the “wiring” specified by φ(i) from the next level of the
decomposition.
Namely, we invoke Lemma 2 with ∆ = 1, Bx = max{|Q|, |Σ|}, By = |Σ|, giving us for each pre-final-layer i an
MLP which represents the function

               (sim1 .W −1 (q (1) ), . . . , simi−1 .W −1 (q (i−1) ), E(σ)) 7→ simi .E(φ(q (1) , . . . , q (i−1) , σ)),

where the inputs are stored in the respective i0 < i and Σ channels, and the output is written to the i channel.
Here, the number of input dimensions is
                       X
                din =      simi0 .dim + 1 ≤ 2|Q| (|T (A)| + |Q| + 4) + 1 ≤ 2|Q| (|T (A)| + 5|Q|).
                          i0 <i

Since the state encodings for each predecessor semiautomaton i0 < i are |Q|-bounded integer vectors and Σ
has been assumed to be a |Σ|-bounded positive integer, it suffices to use d1 = 4din max{|Q|, |Σ|}. The second
                                                                                          |Q|
hidden layer’s width d2 is the number of possible inputs |X |, which is bounded by |Q|2 · |Σ| > d1 . The
weights satisfy
                                  kW1 k∞ ≤ 4, kb1 k∞ ≤ 6 max{|Q|, |Σ|},
                                  kW2 k∞ ≤ 1,      kb2 k∞ ≤ din ,      kW3 k∞ ≤ |Σ|,         b3 = 0.
Between i in the same layer, these routing constructions need to be executed in parallel, so this incurs another
multiplicative factor in the width, bounded conservatively by 2|Q| .


                                                                 59
The final construction concatenates these blocks, so that at the output of the last layer, every channel
i contains a representation of its corresponding component’s semiautomaton Qi . The W guaranteed by
Theorem 7 suffices for the overall choice of W .

C.4     Proof of Theorem 3: Even shorter shortcuts for gridworld
Recall the gridworld semiautomaton in Example 3, where the state (Q = {0, 1, . . . , S}) either move to the
adjacent state based upon seeing input token L or R (modulo boundary effects), or stay unmoved upon seeing
⊥. More formally, the transition function is defined as:
                                            δ(q, L) = max(q − 1, 0)
                                            δ(q, R) = min(q + 1, S)
                                            δ(q, ⊥) = q.
In this section, we will show how to implement gridworld simulation using only 2 Transformer layers. Here
we restate the theorem in full generality:
Theorem 3 (Even shallower shortcuts for gridworld). For each positive integer T , Transformers can simulate
the (S + 1)-state gridworld semiautomaton with 2 attention layers, where the MLP has either (i) depth
O(log S), width O(T + S), or (ii) depth O(1), width O(T ) + 2O(S) . The weight norms are bounded by poly(T ).
The depth in (i) can be reduced to O(S) if we allow max pooling, and the dependence on T in the width can
be removed with sinusoidal activation. We discuss this in detail after the proof along with generalization to
the k-dimensional gridworld case.
Note that, in order to find the current state, we need to only know the most recent time at which the
semiautomata was at a boundary. It is not immediately obvious how to compute the most recent boundary,
if one is not allowed to use the trivial sequential simulation algorithm. Our key insight is that this boundary
detector can be computed without needing to parse the entire sequence, using the most recent S + 1 distinct
values of the prefix sums in the sequence.
This algorithm is especially well-suited to the Transformer architecture since: (i) the prefix sum can be
computed using one attention layer as in Lemma 6, and (ii) the identification of distinct values can be
implemented by a sparse value-dependent lookup similar to the memory lookup in Lemma 7 with the help of
the self -attention (context-dependent retrieval, as opposed to a static lookup), and (iii) the positional weight
sharing and causal masking enable all of these computations to be performed in parallel. Overall, Theorem 3
consists of a concise implementation which executes all of these most-recent-boundary detectors in parallel.
In what follows, we first describe the algorithm (Algorithm 1) for computing the state of the semiautomata
using the S + 1 distinct prefix sum values, and give a proof of its correctness. Subsequently, we formalize
the Transformer construction that implements the algorithm. A consolidated list of notations used in the
algorithm as well as the proofs is provided in Table 1 for the reader.

C.4.1    The algorithm solving 1D gridworld
To convey the essence of the full construction, we first provide pseudocode (rather than Transformer weights)
for computing the final state qT (rather than the entire state sequence).
We map actions σ ∈ {L, R, ⊥} to σ    e ∈ {−1, 1, 0}, i.e. L 7→ −1, R 7→ 1, and ⊥ 7→ 0. Let σ e(:) denote the
sequence of mapped actions, and let 0 be the initial state. The algorithm (Algorithm 1) has two steps:
first, we identify the last time the agent is at a boundary (wall) and the type of the boundary (i.e. state
0 or state S). The final state is then simply the sum of all actions in the sub-sequence, shifted by the last
boundary, which is easily computable with 1 attention layer (Lemma 6). Our key insight is that we can
identify the boundary using O(S) attention heads in two attention layers, and therefore do not require a
recursive computation from the start state (with depth T ).
To show the correctness of Algorithm 1, it suffices to show that the boundary state is detected correctly, since
after that there is no more boundaries and the only step remaining is to calculate the sum of the actions. Let
tuniq , tmin , tmax be as defined in Algorithm 1. Then:


                                                       60
 Notation       Definitions

      σ         An input token; σ ∈ {L, R, ⊥}.
      σ
      e                               e = −1 if σ = L, σ
                A mapped input token; σ                                    e = 0 if σ =⊥.
                                                       e = 1 if σ = R, and σ

 Used in Algorithm 1:

      qt        The state at position t ∈ [T ]; qt ∈ {0, 1, · · · , S}.
   z ∈ ZT       Prefix sums at all T positions.
    tuniq       The most recent position for which the prefix sums ztuniq :T contain S + 1 unique values.
  tmax , tmin   The positions corresponding to the max/min prefix sum among positions tuniq , . . . , T .
    tfinal      The position of the last boundary state, defined as tfinal := max{tmax , tmin }.

 Used in the Transformer construction:

      γt        The positional encoding for position t ∈ [T ], defined as γt := log(2T − t).
    (1)                                                                                    (1)
                                                                                                     i∈[t] si .
                The output of the first layer attention at position t ∈ [T ], defined as xattn [t] := 2T
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                           P
   xattn [t]
    (1)                                                                             (1)          (1)
   xmlp [t]     The output of the first layer MLP at position t ∈ [T ], defined as xmlp [t] := [xattn [t], γt ,
                        (1)              (1)
                1, cos(xattn [t]π), sin(xattn [t]π)].
      (s)
    jmax        The position which achieves the max attention score for the sth head at time t ∈ [T ] (t is
                omitted for notational convenience), for s ∈ [0, 1, · · · , 2S].
     (2)                                                                                                   (2)
   xattn [t]    The output of the second layer attention at position t ∈ [T ], defined as xattn :=
                [γj (0) , γj (1) , · · · , γj (2S) ].
                   max    max         max
     (2)
   xmlp [t]     The output of the second layer MLP at position t ∈ [T ], which gives the state at t.

                                  Table 1: Notations for the proof of Theorem 3.


Lemma 13. If tmin > tmax , then state at tmin is 0, otherwise state at tmax is S.

Proof. The proof follows from two observations:
1. min{tmin , tmax } = tuniq ,
2. Suppose tmin = tuniq (the argument is symmetric for tmax = tuniq ). Then qtmax = S.
First note that σe ∈ {±1} which implies that the prefix sums increment or decrement by 1 at each index.
Therefore, ztmax − ztmin = S + 1. This also applies that between (and including) tmax and tmin , there must be
indices such that they traverse the S + 1 distinct values. Since we take the shortest suffix satisfying this,
tuniq ≥ min{tmax , tmin }. This proves Observation 1.
Assume tmin = tuniq . We can break the analysis into the following 2 cases:
(a) The S + 1 distinct values correspond to S + 1 distinct states (covering both boundaries). This implies
    that the minimum and maximum out of these distinct prefix sums must correspond to the boundaries,
    that is, qtmax = S and qtmin = 0.
(b) The S + 1 distinct values correspond to fewer than S + 1 distinct states. This implies that only one of
    the two boundaries is visited in the sequence starting from tuniq . In order to get S + 1 distinct values, it
    must be that this boundary wall is hit, i.e., the sequence tries to make a move that the boundary blocks.
    If the sequence does not hit a boundary, then at every time the same state is revisited, the prefix sum
    must be the same, and we will not be able to get S + 1 distinct values. Since tmin = tuniq , we claim


                                                           61
Algorithm 1: 1D gridworld: computing the final state
Data: σe ∈ {±1}T , S ∈ Z+
Result: Final state yT ∈ {0, 1, · · · , S}
// Pad tokens so there are at least S + 1 distinct values
e ← [−1, −1, · · · , −1, σ
σ                        e]
     |      {z        }
             S+1

                                 Pt index
// Calculate the prefix sum for each
z ← prefix_sum(e σ ) (i.e. zt ← τ =1 σet )
// Find a substring containing S + 1 unique values
tuniq ← max{t : |set(zt: )| = S + 1}
// Find positions of the last max and min values
tmin ← max{t : zt = minτ ≥tuniq zτ }
tmax ← max{t : zt = maxτ ≥tuniq zτ }
// Identify the type of boundary
if tmin > tmax then
    boundary ← 0
else
    boundary ← S
end
// The final state is the sum of the substring after the last boundary
tfinal ← max{tmin , tmax }
yT = zT − ztfinal + boundary


     that the visited boundary must be S. Suppose this is not true, then the boundary visited is 0. This
     implies that qtmin = 0. Since the sequence does not hit S, at any position it is at state 0 before hitting
     the wall, the value will be ztmin . Thus, when the sequence first hits the wall at 0 (say index τ ), then
     zτ = ztmin − 1 which is not possible by definition of tmin . Thus, the boundary must be S.



Given the above, our algorithm identifies the boundary correctly and then can just use the prefix sum to
evaluate the current state.

C.4.2    Transformer construction for Algorithm 1
In this section we will show how to simulate Algorithm 1 using a 2-layer Transformer with 2S attention heads.

Proof of Theorem 3. In our construction, the first attention layer will compute the prefix sums. This can be
mapped to a cyclic group from Lemma 6, however for completeness, we will restate the main construction.
The MLP in the first layer will map this prefix sum to a circular embedding (see Proposition 5). The second
layer attention will use the circular embedding structure to find S + 1 closest distinct values to the current
value zt (suppose we are considering position t ∈ [T ]) by identifying the positions for closest values in the set
{zt − S, zt − S + 1, . . . , zt − 1, zt + 1, zt + 2, . . . zt + S}, i.e. S closest distinct values smaller than zt , and S
values larger than zt . This closest distinct value construction can be viewed as a position dependent flip-flop
monoid construction, where we need to identify the closest position with a particular action. Note that this
set of values would contain the distinct S + 1 values needed by the Algorithm 1, hence the second layer MLP
can implement the state computation using these values.




                                                           62
                 Case 1: traversal                                        Case 2: hit one wall

                                                                                                                 S (right boundary)
                                                                                                 tfinal
       qt                                 tfinal
                                                                                                                 0 (left boundary)
       zt                                                                        tuniq
                     tuniq
       𝖫 𝖫 𝖱 𝖫 𝖱 𝖱 𝖱 𝖫 𝖱 𝖫                                      𝖫 𝖱 𝖫 𝖫 𝖱 𝖱 𝖱 𝖱 𝖫 𝖫

Figure 19: Illustrated examples for 4-state gridworld (Q = {0, 1, 2, 3}). The algorithms compute the prefix
sums zt (as if there were no boundaries; shown as green dots); intuitively, it might seem like they have
no direct relationship with the state sequence qt (gray dots). However, defining tuniq as the start of the
shortest suffix containing S + 1 distinct prefix sums, and tfinal as the most recent minimum or maximum point
within this suffix, our case analysis shows that qtfinal is always a boundary, resulting in a parallel simulation
algorithm.


Input representation: We select      input symbol embedding E(σ) = σ                        e is the action
                                                                           e · e1 ∈ Rd where σ
                                    
                                     −1    if σ = L
corresponding to σ, that is, s = 1          if σ = R . We will use positional encoding Pt,: := γt e3 , where
                                            otherwise
                                    
                                      0
                                    
γt := log(2T − t) is such that eγt +t = 2T . We will include an extra position ⊥, with embedding E(⊥) := e2
                                 1       1

and position encoding P⊥,: := 0. Think of this as padding at position 0; it is not masked by the causal
attention mask.

Prefix sum (Layer 1 attention): The attention construction for the first layer, in full detail:
    • We select d := 4, k := 1, H := 1.
    • Select WQ := e3 , WK := e2 , WV := e1 , WC> := e4 .
                                                                                           (1)
With this attention module, the 4th channel of the output at position t is xattn [t] = 2T
                                                                                        1
                                                                                                               i∈[t] si , which is the
                                                                                                           P

prefix sum scaled down by 1/2T .

                                                                           (1)                   (1)              (1)
Circular embedding (MLP 1): The first MLP maps xattn [i] 7→ [cos(xattn [i]π), sin(xattn [i]π)], where
cos, sin are calculated up to O(log T ) precision using the construction in Lemma 1 with width 4(2T + 1).
24
    and weight
           h     norms at most 8T . Together withi the input using the skip connection (for γi ) we get
 (1)           (1)                  (1)              (1)
xmlp [t] := xattn [t], γt , 1, cos(xattn [t]π), sin(xattn [t]π) as the embedding to be input to the second attention
layer.

Finding closest S + 1 values (Layer 2 attention): Our goal is to find the shortest subsequence (looking
                                                                                           (1)
back from the current position t) that contains S + 1 distinct values for xattn ; that is, we want to find
                                         (1)
the max τ ≤ t − S such that {xattn [i]}ti=τ = S + 1. We will do this by using 2S + 1 heads such that
∀s ∈ {0, 1, · · · , 2S}, the attention score for the sth head on position i ∈ [T ] satisfies
                                     D                                  E
                              (s)         (s)    (1)      (s)     (1)
                            α̃t,i := (WQ )> xmlp [t], (WK )> xmlp [i]
                                  (
                                                                      (1)         (1)
                                    = 1 − c log(2T − i),          if xattn [i] = xattn [t] + s−S
                                                                                               2T ,
                                                             2
                                                           π
                                    ≤ 1 − c log(2T − i) − 8T  2 , otherwise,
24 The width is 1 if we allow sinusoidal activation instead of relu; see the discussion after the proof.




                                                                63
                  2                                    (1)           (1)                               (1)             (1)
where c = (16 log
               π
                  2)T 2 . That is, for any i, j s.t. xattn [i] = xattn [t] + 2T (matched) and xattn [j] 6= xattn [t] + 2T
                                                                            s−S                                       s−S

                                                                                                       (s)      (s)          2
(unmatched), the difference in the unnormalized attention weights is lower bounded by α̃t,i − α̃t,j ≥ 16T
                                                                                                       π
                                                                                                          2 . This
                                                        
                                        0 0 0
                               (s)   0 0 −c          0 
can be achieved by letting WQ :=     0 0 0
                                                            ∈ R5×5 where ρθ(s) the rotation matrix of angle
                                                           
                                            0 h       ρθ(s)                                            i
                                    (s)     (1)                                  (1)                          (1)
θ(s) := (s−S)π
          2T   , such that (WQ )> xmlp [t] =            0, −c, 0, cos       xattn [t] + s−S
                                                                                         2T π , sin          xattn [t] + s−S
                                                                                                                          2T π   .
 (s)  (s)                                          (s)
                                                           1 + e2 e2 .
WK , WC are simply the 5 × 5 identity matrix, and WV = e1 e>       >

       (s)
Let jmax denote the position that achieves the max attention score for the sth head, then the output of the
                 (1)    (s)
sth head 25 is [xattn [jmax ], γj (s) , 0, 0, 0]. We can ignore the last three coordinates (which are 0) as well as
                                 max
 (1)    (s)                                                  (1)           (1)         (s)
                                                                                           2T by definition. We then
xattn [jmax ], since we will only need the difference xattn [t] − xattn [jmax ] which is s−S
                                                                                       (2)
concatenate the outputs from all (2S+1) heads in a (2S+1)-dimensional vector xattn = [γj (0) , γj (1) , · · · , γj (2S) ]
                                                                                                max   max         max
as the input to the second layer MLP.
Intuitively, each head in the second attention layer is trying to identify the set of positions for which the
prefix sums match a particular value specified by the head. Each head selects the last matching position if
such positions exist, and selects t if not. The following observation will be helpful for our subsequent MLP
                                             (2)                                                     (2)
construction: the values of coordinates of xattn increase on both sides of the S th heads; that is, xattn satisfies
the following:

Lemma 14. There exist a < b ∈ {0, 1, . . . , 2S} such that
                        (2)         (2)                      (2)            (2)                  (2)
                       xattn [a] > xattn [a + 1] > . . . > xattn [S] < xattn [S + 1] < . . . < xattn [b]
                                                               (2)
and all s ∈ {0, 1, . . . , 2S} \ {a, a + 1, . . . , b} we have xattn [s] = log(2T − t).

                      (2)
Proof. Note that xattn [s] := log(2T − γj (s) ) which makes the ordering inverse of the position. Observe that
                                          max
the unmatched indices correspond to values that have not been reached. This can only happen for values on
either the leftmost or the rightmost coordinates, since the prefix sums are continuous on integers. Now let’s
prove that the value will be decreasing moving away from index S in both directions. Suppose this was not
                                            (2)       (2)
true, there indeed was s ≤ S such that xattn [s] ≥ xattn [s − 1] (s ≥ S case is identical), then it implies that
the closest index that achieved relative value S − s is further away from t than S − s + 1. However, since the
moves can update the prefix sum by magnitude at most 1, then to get to relative value 0 from relative value
S − s + 1, we would need to have crossed relative value S − s. This implies that there is another position
closer to t with this value, contradicting our assumption. This proves the result.

                                                                                                                      (2)
Computing state (MLP 2): To compute state from the positional information given by xattn , we need
to do the following computations:
    • Step 1 : consider S + 1 windows of size-(S + 1), each containing the sth to (s + S)th heads for
      s ∈ {0, 1, . . . , S}, and identify the window that contains positions closest to the end (this would
                                                          (1)
      correspond to the closest S + 1 distinct values to xatt [t]);
    • Step 2 : identify the boundary state in the selected window by comparing the indices of the endpoints
      of the window;
    • Step 3 : output the final state based on the position of the boundary states and its value relative to the
      current position t.
25 We assume hard attention here for ease of exposition of the proof; soft attention can be handled with Lemma 4 and Lemma 1

  as in our previous constructions. This requires norm poly(T ) at max.




                                                              64
We will show two constructions for implementing this, one of which will use O(1) depth and 2O(S) width, and
the other will use O(log S) depth and O(S) width. The trade-off essentially lies in how a min function is
implemented and can be resolved if we allow a min-pooling layer, which we will discuss after the proof.
1. O(1)-depth construction: The idea is that we can first use O(1) layers to construct “features” that contain
   all the information needed to determine the state, then a 3-layer MLP with 2O(S) width can compute
   the state as a function of these features by Lemma 2. The features we need are the following (the labels
   underneath are to be consistent with Figure 20, left):

                    {1[xattn [s] > xattn [s + S]]}Ss=0 ,
                           (2)         (2)
                                                                                                               (C.3)
                    |              {z                }
                                      >

                    {1                                              {1[xattn [s] > xattn [s + S + 1]]}Ss=0 ,
                           (2)             (2)                           (2)          (2)
                         [xattn [s − 1] > xattn [s + S]]}Ss=0 ,                                                (C.4)
                    |                      {z                  }    |                {z                  }
                                          >L                                           >R

                    {1
                           (2)
                         [xattn [s] = log(2T − t)]}2S
                                                   s=0 }.                                                      (C.5)
                    |                 {z               }
                                      =

  Here the feature in C.3 compares the end points of the S + 1 windows, the two features in C.4 compare the
  window with its adjacent windows on each side, and the last feature in C.5 will be used to eliminate the
  irrelevant window. Features in C.3 and C.4 can each be computed as a threshold function (at 0) on the
  difference between the two elements to be compared, which can be implemented using 2 layers by Lemma
  3.
   (a) First, we show that to compute Step 1 we only need to compare between adjacent windows whose
       S + 1 heads are all matched, which can be computed using the features above. Consider any
       window starting at s ∈ [0, 1, · · · , S]. On either side, if this window is closer to t than its adjacent
       window on this side, then it is closer to the end of the boundary than all the windows on this
       same side, which would imply that we can ignore these non-adjacent windows. To prove this,
       let’s consider the left side (the right side is analogous) and we want to show: For any s ∈ [S], if
               (2)     (2)                      (2)          (2)                            (2)      (2)
       max{xattn [s], xattn [s + S]} < max{xattn [s − 1], xattn [s + S − 1]}, then max{xattn [s], xattn [s + S]} <
               (2)          (2)                                                    (2)             (2)
       max{xattn [s − i], xattn [s + S − i]} for i > 1: the if condition gives us xattn [s − 1] > xattn [s + S], and
       we know from Lemma 14 that
                                       (2)              (2)               (2)
                                      xattn [s − i] > xattn [s − 1] > xattn [s],
                                       (2)               (2)                    (2)
                                      xattn [s + S] > xattn [s + S − 1] > xattn [s + S − i].
       Combining these inequalities together concludes the proof.
   (b) Given the optimal window, we can use feature C.3 for the relevant window to identify the boundary,
       since the closer-to-t index gives us the last boundary state (see Algorithm 1 for why this suffices).
   (c) Now that we have identified the boundary state (suppose it is at position i), the final state can be
                                                                          (1)        (1)
       computed as the last boundary state (0 or S) plus the difference xattn [t] − xattn [i]. The difference is
       built in to the ordering of the heads, hence we have all the information to compute the final state
       and we are done.
  Therefore, we can compute this function using 4S + 3 features each taking value in {0, 1} and the output
  having S + 1 values. These features themselves can be constructed using Lemma 3 with ∆ = 1/4T since the
  indices are separated by at least this gap. For the indicator index, we can compose two such constructions
  similar to Lemma 1. This gives us the first layer of MLP with width O(S) and norms O(T ). After this,
  the rest of the function can be constructed using a 3-layer ReLU network with width 2O(S) and norms
  bounded by O(S) using Lemma 2.
2. O(log S)-depth construction: An alternative solution to the above is to pay O(log(S)) depth, but reduce
   the width to be O(S). We will borrow features in equation C.3-C.5, but construct the MLP explicitly
   rather than calling Lemma 2 as a black box: the width and depth trade-off essentially correspond to two
   ways of implementing the min of S numbers. We describe the corresponding MLP by components (Fig 20,
   right):


                                                               65
Figure 20: Illustration of the two constructions for second-layer MLP in Theorem C.4, with S = 3. For ease of
                         (2)
readability, we replace xattn with x. Left: O(1)-depth solution where the first block compares the comparison
and equality features (see equation C.3- C.5), and the second block computes the state from these features.
Right: O(log S)-depth solution where first block implements f1 (a, b) = (max{a, b}, 1[a > b]), second block
does a min-pooling operation, the third block implements f2 which takes f1 via a residual connection and
output of min-pool to compute the final state.


    (a) Ignore the unmatched heads: as a preprocessing step for the cleanness of the proof, we use a 1-layer
                       (2)                      (2)
        MLP to map xattn [s] for heads where xattn [s] = log(2T − t) (i.e. jmax = t) to log(2T ) such that these
        unmatched heads can be ignored in the following steps. This can be done by multiplying log(2T ) to
        the threshold function given by Lemma 3 (with ∆ = 4T    1
                                                                  ), where the network has 1 hidden layer with
                                                                              (2)
        width 2S + 1 and ∞-norm 4T . Note that this map also changes xattn [S] (i.e. the center head that
        corresponds to position t) but this will not affect the correctness of the proof.
    (b) Compute the function f1 in Figure 20 (right), which computes f1 (a, b) := (max{a, b}, 1[a > b]) for
             (2)            (2)
        a = xattn [s], b = xattn [s + S]}, ∀s ∈ {0, 1, · · · , S}. The first coordinate max{a, b} can be implemented
        using 1 hidden layer with width 1, and 1[a > b] is the same as feature C.3 and can be implemented
        with 1 hidden layer by Lemma 3. There are S + 1 choices of s, hence the overall width is O(S). For
                                                                  (2)     (2)
        notational convenience, let’s denote f1 (s) := f1 (xattn [s], xattn [s + S]) (with a slight abuse of notation).
    (c) Find the min value of f1 (s)[1], denoted as f1,min := mins f1 (s)[1]: This can be achieved using 1
        min-pooling layer. If we allow ReLU only, then this can be implemented with pairwise comparison
        using a network with dlog S + 1e depth, 3S width and and constant weight norm. 26
                                      (s)                            (s)
    (d) Compute the function f2 in Figure 20 (right): f2 takes two inputs: 1) the second output of f1 ,
        which we denote as Bs := f1 (s)[2], and 2) Ms := 1[f1,min ≤ f1 (s)[1]], which indicates whether the sth
        window is the closest-to-t window or not and can be computed using a 1-hidden-layer network with
        width 2. As in the previous construction, the difference f1,min − f1 (s)[1] is built-in in the ordering of
        the head and hence does not need to be passed in explicitly. Then     by Lemma 2, a 2-hidden-layer
        network of width O(1) can take Bs , Ms as input and compute Ms · B(S − s) + (1 − B)(2S + 1 − s) .
                                                                                                                 
                                                              (s)
        The overall width is O(S) for S + 1 choices of such f2 .
                                         P (s)
    (e) Finally, the state is computed as s f2 (Bs , Ms ), which can be implemented with 1 layer of width 1.


26 The log depth is conjectured to be unimprovable; see discussion after the proof.




                                                              66
Improving the construction to remove T width and log(S) depth. Using standard architectural
tools, such as max-pooling, we can improve our construction to get O(1)-depth and O(S)-width for the MLP.
   • Avoiding width T in the MLP 1 using periodic activations. As in the modular addition (Lemma 6)
     construction, we can use sin activations in the MLP to directly compute the circular embeddings that
     are used as input to the second attention layer. This would require only two hidden nodes in the MLP.
     Note that we do not need precision greater than O(log T ) for these activations since we are embedding
     values only as close as 1/poly(T ).
   • Avoiding log(S) depth in the MLP 2 using max-pooling. The O(log S)-depth in MLP 2 is incurred by
     calculating the min of S numbers and is conjectured to be necessary for ReLU networks (Goel et al.,
     2017, Hertrich et al., 2021, Mukherjee and Basu, 2017). However, the depth can be reduced to 1 if
     we allow max-pooling layers, which are commonly used in both theory and practice (He et al., 2016,
     Vaswani et al., 2021, Zhang et al., 2021b).
Remark: Yao et al. (2021) use layer-norm to compute cos and sin embedding with non-uniform angles. This
could potentially alleviate the width T concern; we leave this exploration to future work.

Extending beyond 1 dimension. Since a 2-dimensional gridworld is just the direct product of 1-
dimensional gridworlds (by the construction in Lemma 8), we can implement both dimensions in parallel
by concatenating the network for each dimension. This can be done by doubling the dimensions, parallel
attention heads, and parallel hidden units in the MLP. The attention head parameters for each dimension
can be chosen to only focus on the relevant dimension and similarly the MLP can zero out dependence on the
other dimension. We can extend this to higher dimension with a multiplicative increase in the size of the
parameters.

C.5     Proof of Theorem 4: Depth lower bound for non-solvable semiautomata
Theorem 4 (Transformer Barrington). Let A be a non-solvable semiautomaton. Then, for sufficiently large
T , no fixed-precision Transformer with depth independent of T and width polynomial in T can simulate A at
length T , unless TC0 = NC1 .

Proof. This follows straightforwardly from the fact that simulating A at length T is NC1 -complete under
NC0 reductions: given any O(log T )-depth bounded-fan-in AND/OR/NOT circuit C, and a depth-D circuit C 0
which simulates a semiautomaton whose transformation monoid contains a non-solvable subgroup, there is a
procedure which generates a depth-O(D) circuit to simulate C; see (Barrington and Thérien, 1988). This
in turn comes from the construction used in Barrington’s theorem (Barrington, 1986), which characterizes
NC1 as exactly the set of languages recognizable by bounded-width branching programs. For a closely related
reference which follows almost exactly the same argument, see (Mereghetti and Palano, 2000).
Thus, it suffices to show that a constant-depth Transformer is in TC0 . The details of manipulating floating-
point numbers with discrete circuits are peripheral to the main results in this paper, so we provide a brief
proof sketch. A similar argument is used by Merrill et al. (2021) to establish that “saturated” Transformers (a
multi-index analogue of hard-attention Transformers), with O(log T ) bit precision, can be represented with a
TC0 circuit. We outline a proof (which applies to the formal setting considered by Merrill et al. (2021)) for
the notion of Transformers defined in this paper.
With O(log T ) bits of precision, all n-way (including unary) arithmetic operations mapping Rn → R can be
represented with a constant-depth, poly(T )-width AC0 circuit, as long as n does not depend on T . Although
improvements are certainly possible, it suffices to consider the circuit which memorizes the i-th bit of the
output, which has width 2n log T ≤ O(poly(T )). Thus, the position-wise non-interacting matrix operations
(multiplication by X 7→ WQ X, etc., the feedforward MLP layers, and the encoding and decoding layers) can
be simulated with poly(T ) width.
The only subtlety arises when there is a T -way summation over O(log T )-bit numbers, which occur in the
softmax and attention mixture layers. For this operation, we can use the construction from (Reif and Tate,
1992), which can even add T poly(T )-bit numbers in TC0 .


                                                      67
